

::: 100-a:fiduciary_capacities_appointment_by_court_authorized_bond_oath_accounting.html
 
    &#167; 100-a. Fiduciary  capacities; appointment by court authorized; bond;
  oath; accounting. 1. Executor.  When  any  trust  company  is  appointed
  executor in any last will and testament, the court or officer authorized
  to  grant  letters  testamentary  in  this state, shall, upon the proper
  application, grant letters testamentary thereon to such trust company or
  to its successors by merger.
    2. Guardian, trustee or administrator.
    (a)  Any  trust  company  may  be  appointed  guardian,   trustee   or
  administrator,  on  the  application  or consent of any person acting as
  such or as an executor or entitled to such appointment  irrespective  of
  whether  such person would himself be disqualified from acting by reason
  of his being an alien or non-resident of this state, and  in  the  place
  and  stead  of such person, or such trust company may be joined with any
  person so acting or entitled to such appointment; but such  appointments
  shall  be  made  upon such notice, as is required by law, to the persons
  interested in the estate or fund and on  the  consent  of  such  of  the
  principal  legatees or other persons interested in the estate or fund as
  the court, surrogate or judge making the appointment shall deem  proper.
  No appointment so made shall be deemed to increase the number of persons
  entitled  to  full  compensation beyond the number so entitled under the
  terms of the will or deed creating the trust or appointing a guardian or
  authorized by law. Whenever a person is joined with such  trust  company
  in   any   appointment   as  guardian,  trustee  or  administrator,  his
  appointment may be under such limitation of powers and upon  such  terms
  and  conditions  as to deposit of assets by such person, with such trust
  company, or otherwise, and upon such reduced  bond  or  security  to  be
  given  by  such  person,  as  the  court, surrogate or judge, making the
  appointment shall prescribe.
    (b) When application is made to any court or officer having  authority
  to grant letters of administration with the will annexed upon the estate
  of  any deceased person, and there is no person entitled to such letters
  who  is  qualified,  competent,  willing  and  able   to   accept   such
  administration,  such  court  or officer may at the request of any party
  interested in the estate, grant such letters of administration with  the
  will annexed, to any trust company.
    (c)  Any  court  or  officer  having  authority  to  grant  letters of
  guardianship of any infant may upon the same application as is  required
  by  law  for  the appointment of a guardian for such infant, appoint any
  trust company as the guardian of the estate of such infant.
    3. Committee of incompetent or conservator of a conservatee. Any court
  having jurisdiction to appoint a trustee, guardian, receiver,  committee
  of  the  estate  of  a  mentally ill person, mentally retarded person or
  alcohol abuser or conservator of the estate of a conservatee, or to make
  any fiduciary appointment, may appoint any  trust  company  to  be  such
  trustee,  guardian, receiver, committee or conservator, or to act in any
  other fiduciary capacity.
    4. Receiver, trustee or committee. Any court, having  jurisdiction  to
  appoint a committee or trustee or a receiver in insolvency or bankruptcy
  proceedings  or  in  any  other  proceeding,  or  action, under state or
  federal law, may appoint any trust company to be such receiver,  trustee
  or committee.
    5.  Bonds.  No bond or other security, except as hereinafter provided,
  shall be required from any trust company for or in respect to any trust,
  nor when appointed executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, receiver,
  committee or depositary or in any  other  fiduciary  capacity  nor  when
  receiving  commissions  under  the  provisions of SCPA 2310 or 2311. The
  court, or officer making such appointment may, upon proper  application,
  require  any  trust  company, which shall have been so appointed to give
  such security as to the court or officer  shall  seem  proper,  or  upon
  failure  of  such trust company to give security as required, may remove
  such trust company from and revoke such appointment.
    6.  Court  orders,  accounts.  Such  court  or officer may make orders
  respecting such trusts and require any such trust company to render  all
  accounts,  which  such  court  or officer might lawfully require if such
  executor,  administrator,  guardian,   trustee,   receiver,   committee,
  depositary or such trust company acting in any other fiduciary capacity,
  were a natural person.
    7.  No  official  oath  required.  Upon  the appointment of such trust
  company as such executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, receiver  or
  committee, no official oath shall be required.


::: 100-b:investments_as_fiduciary_when_interest_is_to_be_paid_preference.html
 
    &#167; 100-b. Investments  as  fiduciary;  when  interest  is  to  be paid;
  preference. 1. Investments. All investments of  money  received  by  any
  trust  company  as executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of a trust
  of any kind, receiver, committee, conservator or depositary, shall be at
  its sole risk, and for all losses  of  such  money  the  capital  stock,
  property  and  effects  of the trust company shall be absolutely liable,
  unless the investments are such as are proper when made by an individual
  acting  as  trustee,  executor,   administrator,   guardian,   receiver,
  committee, conservator or depositary, or such as are permitted in and by
  the instrument or words creating or defining the trust. But no corporate
  fiduciary  shall purchase securities from itself. Any moneys of any such
  estate or fund awaiting  investment  or  distribution  may  be  held  on
  deposit by such trust company in its own name, subject to the provisions
  of  subdivision  four of this section; provided that appropriate entries
  showing the share or interest of each such estate or fund in the  moneys
  so  held on deposit shall, at all times, appear upon the records of such
  trust company.
    2. On and after September first, nineteen hundred thirty-six, no trust
  company shall invest in any part interest in a bond and mortgage or note
  and mortgage on behalf of any estate or fund held by such trust  company
  as  executor, administrator, guardian, personal or testamentary trustee,
  receiver, committee,  conservator  or  depositary  except  that  if  the
  instrument  creating  such  estate  or  fund  has  authorized such trust
  company as executor, administrator, guardian, personal  or  testamentary
  trustee, receiver, committee, conservator or depositary to invest in any
  part interest in a bond and mortgage or note and mortgage insured by the
  federal housing commissioner such trust company may so invest and if the
  instrument  creating an employee benefit trust has authorized such trust
  company to invest in any part interest in a bond and  mortgage  or  note
  and  mortgage,  such trust company may so invest. Any part interest in a
  bond and mortgage or note and mortgage  heretofore  apportioned  to  any
  estate   or   fund   and   held  by  such  trust  company  as  executor,
  administrator, guardian, personal  or  testamentary  trustee,  receiver,
  committee, conservator or depositary, and outstanding at any time in the
  hands of any estate, fund or person may be repurchased at its face value
  by  such corporation individually. Such trust company, in any case where
  it shall have apportioned or transferred a part interest in any bond and
  mortgage or note and mortgage whether to any estate or fund held  by  it
  alone  or  in  conjunction  with  another  person or otherwise, shall be
  authorized and empowered, in behalf of all persons  interested  therein,
  to  collect  the principal and interest and to satisfy and discharge the
  mortgage on receiving payment thereof in the amount and  in  the  manner
  specified in the bond and mortgage or note and mortgage, to pay the said
  principal  and interest to the persons entitled thereto and generally to
  exercise all of the options reserved to the mortgagee, to enforce in its
  own name by appropriate action or proceeding, including foreclosure, any
  and all of the covenants in the said  bond  and  mortgage  or  note  and
  mortgage, to take such other measures for the protection of the mortgage
  loan  and  the  preservation  of  the  security  and  the management of,
  utilization and sale of  any  real  estate  which  may  be  acquired  on
  foreclosure  as  may  be  necessary  and appropriate and to exercise all
  other rights of ownership in respect of the entire bond and mortgage  or
  note  and mortgage. In case any bond, note or mortgage shall be held by,
  or in the name of, such  trust  company  and  it  shall  hold  any  part
  interest   therein,   acting  as  a  fiduciary,  whether  alone,  or  in
  conjunction with another person or otherwise, it  may,  prior  to  April
  first, nineteen hundred sixty-nine, waive or modify or agree to waive or
  modify,  either with or without consideration and prior or subsequent to
  maturity, any terms  and  conditions  thereof,  including  the  rate  of
  interest,  and  extend or re-extend or agree to extend or re-extend such
  bond and mortgage or note and mortgage, for a period of  not  more  than
  five  years from the time of such extension, by agreement with the owner
  of the real property subject to the lien thereof, upon  the  consent  of
  the  holders  of  such  part  interests  to  the extent of sixty-six and
  two-thirds per centum of the whole amount of such bond and  mortgage  or
  note  and  mortgage,  notwithstanding  that, at the time of such waiver,
  modification, extension or agreement, the value of  such  real  property
  may be less than that required by law for an original investment of such
  an  amount  therein  by  such holder and, in case any such investment is
  guaranteed, such trust company may also extend or re-extend or agree  to
  extend  or  re-extend  the time of payment under the guaranty for a like
  period from its due date, and may  release  or  agree  to  release  such
  guaranty  or  from  time  to  time  waive or modify or agree to waive or
  modify any terms and conditions thereof, including the rate of interest;
  provided however,  that  no  such  waiver,  modification,  extension  or
  agreement shall be made or agreed to unless, at least fifteen days prior
  thereto,  such  trust  company shall have notified each holder of such a
  part interest in such bond and mortgage or  note  and  mortgage  of  the
  terms   and   conditions  of  such  contemplated  waiver,  modification,
  extension or agreement. Such notice shall be given by mailing  the  same
  by  registered  mail to the address or place of residence of each holder
  according to the records of such trust company. The notice  hereinbefore
  provided  for  shall not be required to be given to any holder of such a
  part interest in such bond and mortgage or note and mortgage (1) who, at
  the time of the mailing of such notice to holders of part  interests  in
  such  bond  and  mortgage  or  note  and  mortgage, was not shown on the
  records of such trust company to be such holder, or (2) who, at any time
  whether before or after any  such  waiver,  modification,  extension  or
  agreement  shall  have  been  made or agreed to, shall have consented to
  such waiver, modification, extension  or  agreement.  Any  such  consent
  shall also be binding upon and shall be deemed to be the consent also of
  each  and every holder of the part interest in such bond and mortgage or
  note and mortgage or of any part of such part interest with  respect  to
  which  such  consent  was given who, at the time such consent was given,
  was not shown on the records of such trust company  to  be  such  holder
  whether or not such holder shall have become such holder before or after
  such  consent  was  given.  Any  holder  to whom the notice hereinbefore
  provided for is required to be given as hereinbefore  provided  and  who
  objects  to such waiver, modification, extension or agreement shall have
  the right to apply, within fifteen days after  such  notice  shall  have
  been  mailed  to  such  holder  as hereinbefore provided, to the supreme
  court of the county in which the real property securing such mortgage is
  located and, subject to the discretion  of  the  supreme  court  in  the
  premises,  to  obtain  an  order  enjoining  such  waiver, modification,
  extension or agreement. In the event of the granting of such  an  order,
  any  holder  shall  have  the  right to apply to such supreme court and,
  subject to the discretion of the  supreme  court  in  the  premises,  to
  obtain  an order directing a partition of such bond and mortgage or note
  and mortgage by a judicial sale thereof. Such sale shall  be  upon  such
  notice  and  advertisement and at such time and place and in such manner
  as the court or a justice thereof may direct, but at least fifteen days'
  notice thereof shall be given to each holder. The proceeds of  the  sale
  of  such  bond  and  mortgage  or  note and mortgage after deducting the
  expenses of such sale, shall be paid into the supreme court and shall be
  distributed among such holders according to their  respective  interests
  therein.  Such  trust companies shall have all the powers heretofore had
  under this section or  any  other  provision  of  law  with  respect  to
  investments  in  part  interests  in  bonds  and  mortgages or notes and
  mortgages for the protection, preservation and liquidation of the  trust
  property.  It is the intent of this subdivision to prohibit after August
  thirty-first, nineteen hundred thirty-six, any future apportionments  or
  investments  of  any part interests in bonds and mortgages and notes and
  mortgages to or investments in part interests of bonds and mortgages and
  notes and mortgages for any estate or fund of which such  trust  company
  is  executor, administrator, guardian, personal or testamentary trustee,
  receiver, committee, conservator or depositary, except as  permitted  by
  this subdivision. Such trust company, however, shall not transfer to any
  estate  or  fund  any part interests in bonds and mortgages or notes and
  mortgages heretofore purchased, or invested in, from itself or from  any
  other estate or fund.
    Nothing  contained  in  this  act  shall  be  construed  to affect any
  investments in part interest  in  bonds  and  mortgages  apportioned  or
  transferred,  prior  to September first, nineteen hundred thirty-six, to
  any  estate  or  fund  of  which  such  trust   company   is   executor,
  administrator,  guardian,  personal  or  testamentary trustee, receiver,
  committee,  conservator  or  depositary,  nor  to  affect   any   action
  heretofore  taken  in accordance with law with respect to such bonds and
  mortgages or part interests in said bonds and mortgages; nor  to  affect
  the  right  of  any such trust company to transfer or apportion any such
  investment from an estate or fund to a succeeding  interest  created  by
  the same instrument under which the investment was made; nor shall it be
  construed  to impair or otherwise affect the power of such trust company
  to apportion to any estate, fund or person interested in  such  mortgage
  its or his proportionate share of the consideration, consisting in whole
  or  in  part  of  evidences of indebtedness secured by mortgages on real
  property received by such trust company on the  sale  of  real  property
  acquired  by foreclosure of such mortgage, or otherwise, and to exercise
  with respect to such mortgages on behalf  of  such  estates,  funds,  or
  persons the same powers reserved with respect to the original mortgage.
    3.  Preference.  If  dissolved  by  the  legislature  or the court, or
  otherwise, or liquidated by the superintendent or otherwise,  the  debts
  from  any  trust  company as guardian, trustee, executor, administrator,
  committee, conservator or depositary, shall be entitled to  priority  of
  payment  from  the  assets of such trust company on an equality with any
  other priority given by this chapter.
    4. Interest. On all sums of money not less than one thousand  dollars,
  which  shall  be  collected,  received  and held as principal by a trust
  company acting as executor, administrator, guardian, trustee,  receiver,
  committee  or conservator under the appointment of any court or officer,
  or in any fiduciary capacity under such appointment, or as a  depositary
  of  moneys paid into court, interest shall be paid by such trust company
  from sixty days after the receipt thereof until the moneys  so  received
  shall  be  duly  expended or distributed, at a rate equal to the maximum
  rate per annum  then  being  paid  by  such  trust  company  on  savings
  deposits,  except that in the case of a trust company acting as executor
  or administrator interest shall not be paid, and  the  grace  period  of
  sixty  days herein provided for shall not be deemed to begin, until five
  months after  the  date  of  issuance  of  letters  testamentary  or  of
  administration to it; provided however that such trust company shall not
  be  required to allow any interest upon any such moneys payment of which
  is prohibited under any order, regulation  or  ruling  issued  under  or
  pursuant to the "Trading with the Enemy Act" and any amendments thereto,
  or under or pursuant to any other law, so long as such prohibition shall
  remain  in  force  and  effect.  If income be accumulated for a minor or
  surplus income in excess of expenditures be held for investment  by  the
  committee of an incompetent or the conservator of a conservatee, but not
  otherwise,  any  uninvested  balance  of such income shall be treated as
  principal  upon  which  interest  shall  be  paid  as  provided  in this
  subdivision. If interest moneys payable hereunder or  any  part  thereof
  shall  not  annually be expended or distributed pursuant to the terms or
  provisions of the trust under which such moneys  are  held,  the  amount
  thereof  not  so  expended  or  distributed shall be accumulated by such
  trust company for the benefit of the parties interested  in  such  trust
  fund,  and shall be added to the principal to constitute a new principal
  upon which interest shall thereafter be computed. The word "trustee"  as
  used  in  this  subdivision shall mean a trustee appointed by will or by
  any court, and the words "savings deposits" as used in this  subdivision
  shall  mean  time  deposits  with  respect to which the depositor is not
  required by the deposit contract, but may at any  time  be  required  by
  such  trust company, to give notice in writing of an intended withdrawal
  not less than fourteen days before such withdrawal is made, and which is
  not payable on a specified date or at the expiration of a specified time
  after the date of deposit. For the purposes of  this  subdivision  only,
  moneys  on  which  interest  is  payable as provided herein shall not be
  deemed to be demand deposits.


::: 100-c:common_trust_funds.html
 
    &#167; 100-c.  Common  trust  funds.  1.  For the purpose of investment and
  reinvestment of moneys  received  and  held  by  any  trust  company  as
  executor,  administrator,  guardian,  trustee,  donee  of  power  during
  minority to manage property vested in an  infant,  custodian  under  any
  Uniform  Gifts to Minors Act, any Uniform Transfers to Minors Act or The
  New York Uniform Transfers to Minors Act, conservator or committee, such
  trust company may establish and maintain common trust  funds  and  short
  term  investment common trust funds. In any case where the instrument or
  the order, decree or judgment under which such moneys are held does  not
  forbid,  such  trust company, either alone or in conjunction with one or
  more other persons acting with it in any fiduciary capacity, may  invest
  and  reinvest  such moneys or any part thereof by adding the same to any
  such common trust funds and short term investment  common  trust  funds.
  Such  trust  company  shall  have  the same power to invest common trust
  funds in  securities  of  any  management  type  investment  company  or
  investment  trust, registered pursuant to the federal investment company
  act of nineteen hundred forty, as is set forth in, and  subject  to  the
  provisions  of,  sections  11-2.2  and 11-2.3 of the estates, powers and
  trusts law.
    2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,  a  trust  company  may
  deposit  securities  investments  of a common trust fund, or arrange for
  the deposit of such investments  through  a  subcustodian,  (a)  with  a
  clearing corporation pursuant to EPTL 11-1.9, (b) with a federal reserve
  bank  pursuant  to  EPTL  11-1.8,  or  (c) with a securities depository,
  clearing agency, or bank, whether or  not  subject  to  the  laws  of  a
  jurisdiction  other  than  the United States of America, or any state or
  subdivision thereof, for the account  of  the  trust  company  and  such
  investments  shall  be  deemed for the purposes of this section to be in
  the custody of such trust company.
    3. A common trust fund shall not be deemed a separate  trust  fund  on
  which  commissions  or  other  compensation  is  allowable  and no trust
  company maintaining such a fund shall make any charge against such  fund
  for  the  management thereof. Provided, however, that in those instances
  where a trust company invests common trust funds in  securities  of  any
  management  type  investment company or investment trust pursuant to the
  provisions of subdivision one of this section, such  trust  company  may
  charge  the  common  trust  fund  for  the  fees  and  expenses  of such
  securities pursuant to and consistent with the  provisions  of  sections
  11-2.2 and 11-2.3 of the estates, powers and trusts law.
    4.  If money of an estate, trust or fund or any part thereof held by a
  trust company in conjunction with one  or  more  other  persons  in  any
  fiduciary capacity is invested in a common trust fund, the participating
  interest  therein  so  acquired  shall  be  withdrawn therefrom upon the
  written request of any  such  other  person  acting  in  such  fiduciary
  capacity with such trust company.
    5.  If  any  investment  held in a common trust fund shall cease to be
  eligible as a new investment  of  such  common  trust  fund,  the  trust
  company  maintaining  the  common  trust  fund,  prior  to  any  further
  additions to or withdrawals from  such  fund,  either  shall  sell  such
  investment  or shall set the same apart in a liquidating account for the
  benefit ratably of each participant then interested in such common trust
  fund.
    6. At least once every ten years, each  trust  company  maintaining  a
  common  trust  fund  shall file an account of its proceedings in respect
  thereof either in the office of the clerk of the supreme court or in the
  office of the surrogate in  any  county  in  which  such  trust  company
  maintains an office.
    Upon  the  filing  of the petition for the settlement of such account,
  the court shall assign a time and place for a hearing on the  settlement
  of  such  account  and  order notice thereof by: (a) one publication not
  less than twenty days prior to the date of such hearing, of a notice  in
  a  newspaper to be designated by the court, and (b) mailing on or before
  the day of publication a copy of the notice to all persons  whose  names
  and addresses appear, at the close of the period accounted for, upon the
  records  maintained  by the trust company pertaining to the common trust
  fund as well as to any estate, trust or fund, any part  of  which  shall
  have  been invested in the common trust fund and who at the close of the
  period accounted for were known by such trust company to be or to  claim
  to be included in any of the following classes of persons: (i) those who
  at  any  time  during the period accounted for were entitled to share in
  the income of any estate, trust or fund invested  in  the  common  trust
  fund  at any time during the period accounted for; (ii) those who became
  entitled to share in the principal of any estate, trust or fund invested
  in the common trust fund which became distributable in whole or in  part
  during  the  period  accounted  for; (iii) those who at the close of the
  period accounted for would have been entitled to share in the  principal
  of  any  estate,  trust or fund invested in the common trust fund if the
  event upon which such estate, trust or fund would  become  distributable
  in  whole  or  in part had occurred at the close of the period accounted
  for, provided, however, that in the case of a trust which at  the  close
  of  the  period accounted for can be revoked in its entirety in favor of
  and by the grantor, donor, trustor or creator, it shall not be necessary
  for such trust company to include the names and addresses of any persons
  interested in the principal of such trust other than the grantor, donor,
  trustor, or creator; (iv) those  living  at  the  close  of  the  period
  accounted  for who had any interest in the income or principal, or both,
  of any estate, trust or fund invested in the common trust fund, and  who
  prior  to  the close of the period accounted for shall have notified the
  trust company in writing to send a copy of the notice or citation of any
  proceeding for the settlement of any account  or  the  trustee  of  such
  common  trust  fund  to such person at an address furnished to the trust
  company by such person; (v) those who at  any  time  during  the  period
  accounted for were acting with the trust company in a fiduciary capacity
  with respect to any such estate, trust or fund; (vi) the guardian of any
  infant,  the  committee  of  any  incompetent and the conservator of any
  conservatee included among the persons hereinbefore described; (vii) the
  personal representative  of  any  deceased  person  included  among  the
  persons hereinbefore described in class (i), (ii), (iii), or (v).
    Upon  the filing of such petition, the court shall appoint a person to
  appear as guardian  ad  litem  for  each  person  who  has  or  who  may
  thereafter have any interest in the income of such common trust fund and
  a  person  to appear as guardian ad litem for each person who has or who
  may thereafter have any interest in the principal of such  common  trust
  fund.  Each  such  interested  person  may  appear  in  such  accounting
  proceeding  and  on  his  failure  to  appear  shall  be  deemed  to  be
  represented  in such proceeding by the person designated respectively as
  such guardian ad litem.
    Except  as  otherwise  herein  provided,  such  proceeding  shall   be
  conducted  in  the same manner as any other proceeding for the voluntary
  judicial settlement of the account of a testamentary trustee. The decree
  in such proceeding shall be thereafter binding and conclusive in respect
  of any matter embraced in the account or in such decree upon all persons
  having or who may thereafter have any interest in such common trust fund
  or in any participating estate, trust or fund.
    7. As used in this section,  subject  to  subdivision  eight  of  this
  section  the term "trust company" shall mean any trust company, any bank
  duly authorized to exercise  fiduciary  powers  and  any  national  bank
  having  a  principal,  branch  or  trust  office  in this state and duly
  authorized  to  exercise  fiduciary powers; the term "estate" shall mean
  the assets held by an executor or an administrator, with or without  the
  will  annexed, of the goods, chattels and credits of a decedent, but not
  a temporary administrator; the term "trust" shall mean the assets of any
  trust however created  held  by  the  trustee  thereof,  including,  but
  without  limitation,  any assets held by a fiduciary as donee of a power
  during minority to manage property vested in an infant; the term  "fund"
  shall  include the assets of an infant held by the guardian thereof, the
  assets of an incompetent person held by the committee thereof,  and  the
  assets of a conservatee held by the conservator thereof. The term "donee
  of a power during minority to manage property vested in an infant" shall
  for  the purposes of this section include only a fiduciary who has power
  during a period measured by a minority to hold and invest  moneys  under
  the  terms  of  an  instrument under which the fiduciary had theretofore
  held such moneys as executor or as personal or testamentary trustee.
    8. (a) A trust company, at least ninety  per  centum  of  the  capital
  stock  of  which  is  directly or indirectly, or through a subsidiary or
  subsidiaries, owned, controlled or held with power to  vote  by  a  bank
  holding  company  may  establish  and  maintain one or more common trust
  funds and short term investment common trust funds, or may  utilize  one
  or  more common trust funds and short term investment common trust funds
  previously established by it, for funds held in  any  of  the  fiduciary
  capacities  mentioned  in subdivision one of this section, by itself and
  by other trust companies at least ninety per centum of the capital stock
  of each of which is directly or indirectly, or through a  subsidiary  or
  subsidiaries,  owned, controlled or held with power to vote by such bank
  holding company. Each trust company, the capital stock of  which  is  so
  owned,  controlled  or  held,  may invest and reinvest in one or more of
  such common trust funds and short term  investment  common  trust  funds
  moneys  held in any of the fiduciary capacities mentioned in subdivision
  one of this section. The trust company establishing, maintaining, or  so
  utilizing  any  such common trust funds and short term investment common
  trust funds shall comply with, and be subject to, all of the  provisions
  of  this  section  as  though  such  trust  company  and the other trust
  companies participating in such fund were one  and  the  same  corporate
  entity.
    (b)  For  the  purpose of this subdivision, (i) the term "bank holding
  company" shall be  given  the  same  meaning  as  is  contained  in  the
  definition  of  such  term  in  section  one  hundred  forty-one of this
  chapter, and (ii) the term "trust  company"  shall  be  given  the  same
  meaning  as  is  contained in the definition of such term in subdivision
  seven of this section, except that such term shall be deemed to include,
  in addition to the entities listed in  such  subdivision,  any  banking,
  trust  or financial company, corporation or association, organized under
  the laws of the United States,  whether  or  not  having  its  principal
  office  outside  this state, or of any state of the United States, which
  is duly authorized to exercise fiduciary powers.
    9. (a) As used in  this  subdivision,  unless  the  context  otherwise
  required:
    (i)  "Short  term  investment  common trust fund" means a common trust
  fund maintained and administered by a trust company exclusively for  the
  collective  investment  and  reinvestment  of moneys contributed thereto
  which are invested and reinvested in any  short  term  investment  by  a
  trust company, in its capacity as a fiduciary or co-fiduciary.
    (ii)  "Short term investment" means bonds, notes or other evidences of
  indebtedness which are payable upon demand  (including  variable  amount
  notes)  or  which have a maturity date of one year or less from the date
  of purchase, or which may be prescribed, from time to time, by rules  or
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent of financial services, and
  which are acquired or held by a trust company in a short term investment
  common trust fund.
    (iii)  "Participant"  means any estate, trust, donee of a power during
  minority, guardianship,  committeeship,  conservatorship,  or  custodian
  under  any  Uniform  Transfers  to  Minors  Act  administered by a trust
  company, as fiduciary or co-fiduciary, having a participation.
    (iv) "Participation" means the interest of a participant  in  a  short
  term investment common trust fund.
    (b) Any trust company may administer one or more short term investment
  common trust funds.
    (c)  Any  trust company shall, at least once each year, cause an audit
  of each short term investment common  trust  fund  administered  by  the
  trust  company  to  be  made  by  auditors who are independent certified
  public accountants. A copy of such  audit  shall  be  available  at  the
  office  of  the  trust  company  maintained for the transaction of trust
  business, during all regular  business  hours,  for  inspection  by  any
  person having an interest in any participant, and upon request a copy of
  any  such  audit shall be furnished without any cost to such person. The
  reasonable expenses of any such  audit  made  by  independent  certified
  public  accounts  or  of  any  examination  by the superintendent may be
  charged to the income of the short term investment common trust fund.
    (d) A trust company administering a short term investment common trust
  fund shall not be required to render a court accounting with  regard  to
  such fund.
    10.  The  superintendent  of  financial services shall promulgate such
  regulations  and  rules  as  it  considers  appropriate  to  govern  the
  administration  of  common  trust funds and short term investment common
  trust funds.


::: 100-d:foreign_common_trust_funds.html
 
    &#167; 100-d.  Foreign common trust funds. Any banking corporation or trust
  company incorporated under the laws of another state which is  qualified
  to  act  as  executor  or testamentary trustee in this state pursuant to
  subdivision three of section one hundred thirty-one of the  banking  law
  may, when acting in either such capacity, invest any moneys received and
  held  by it in such capacity, either alone or in conjunction with one or
  more other persons acting with it in such capacity, in any common  trust
  fund  or funds maintained by it in accordance with the laws of the state
  of its incorporation; provided that the will under which  it  is  acting
  does  not  specifically prohibit such investment and that the will under
  which it is acting shall authorize the investment of such moneys in  any
  of  the  following;  (a)  in  such  a  common  trust  fund;  (b) in such
  investments as such fiduciary or fiduciaries under such will may  select
  in  the  discretion  of  such fiduciary or fiduciaries; (c) generally in
  investments other than those in which trustees are by law authorized  to
  invest  trust  funds; and provided that any banking corporation or trust
  company incorporated under the laws of this state is  permitted  by  the
  laws  of  the state of incorporation of such foreign banking corporation
  or trust company, when acting in  similar  fiduciary  capacity  in  that
  state,  to invest any moneys received and held by it in such capacity in
  any common trust fund or funds maintained by it in accordance  with  the
  laws of this state.


::: 1001:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 1001.  Definitions.  In  this  article, unless the context otherwise
  requires:
    1. "Corporation" means and includes all banks, trust  companies,  safe
  deposit   companies,   investment  companies,  mutual  trust  investment
  companies,  and,  to  the  extent  not  provided  otherwise  under   any
  regulation  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services promulgated
  pursuant to the  provisions  of  section  fourteen-e  of  this  chapter,
  stock-form savings banks and stock-form savings and loan associations.
    2.   "Director"   means  any  member  of  the  governing  board  of  a
  corporation, whether designated as director, trustee, manager, governor,
  or by any other title. The term "board" means "board of directors".
    3. "Foreign corporation" means a corporation which is licensed by  the
  superintendent under the provisions of article two of this chapter to do
  business in this state or is applying for such license and a corporation
  authorized  to conduct business in this state pursuant to article five-C
  of this chapter or is applying for such authorization.
    4. "Office" means in the case of a bank or trust company its principal
  office, in the case of a safe deposit  company,  investment  company  or
  mutual  trust investment company, its principal place of business and in
  the case of a foreign corporation the place of  business  designated  in
  its  license  or  its  authorization  pursuant to article five-C of this
  chapter, as the case may be, for the oldest agency  or  branch  in  this
  state of such foreign corporation.
    5.  "Organization  certificate" includes (a) the original organization
  certificate or any other instrument filed or issued under any statute to
  form a corporation or foreign corporation, as amended,  supplemented  or
  restated  by certificates of amendment, merger or consolidation or other
  certificates or instruments filed or issued under any statute; or (b)  a
  special act or charter creating a corporation or foreign corporation, as
  amended,  supplemented or restated by special acts or by certificates of
  amendment, merger or consolidation or other certificates or  instruments
  filed or issued under any statute.
    6.  "Treasury  shares"  means shares which have been issued, have been
  subsequently acquired, and are retained uncancelled by the corporation.


::: 1002:application.html
 
    &#167; 1002. Application. 1. This article applies to every corporation and,
  to  the  extent herein provided, to every foreign corporation, and shall
  not apply to any other banking organization, except to such  extent,  if
  any,  as  may be specified in any article of this chapter governing such
  banking organization.
    2. The general corporation law, the  stock  corporation  law  and  the
  business  corporation  law shall not apply to any corporation or foreign
  corporation as defined in section one thousand one.


::: 1003:certificates_requirements_signing_filing_effectiveness.html
 
    &#167; 1003. Certificates; requirements, signing, filing, effectiveness. 1.
  Every  certificate  or  other  instrument  relating  to a corporation or
  foreign corporation which is delivered to the superintendent for  filing
  under  this  chapter  shall  be in the English language, except that the
  corporate name may be in another language if written in English  letters
  or characters.
    2.  Whenever  such  instrument is required to set forth an address, it
  shall include the street and number,  or  other  particular  description
  instead  of a street and number. This requirement does not apply where a
  post office address is specified to be set forth.
    3. Whenever such instrument is required to set forth the date when  an
  organization  certificate  was filed by the superintendent, the original
  organization certificate is meant. This requirement shall be  satisfied,
  in  the  case  of a corporation created by special act, by setting forth
  the chapter number and year of passage of such act.
    4. Every such instrument required under this chapter to be signed  and
  delivered  to the superintendent shall, except as otherwise specified in
  the section providing for such instrument, be signed either (a)  by  the
  holders  of  all  outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon, or (b) by
  the chairman of the board, the president or a vice president and by  the
  secretary  or  an  assistant  secretary or, in the case of a corporation
  which does not have a  secretary  or  an  assistant  secretary,  by  the
  cashier or an assistant cashier or (c) if there are no such officers, by
  a  majority  of  the  directors or such directors as are designated by a
  majority of the directors in  office,  or  (d)  if  also  there  are  no
  directors,  by  the  holders,  or  such of them as are designated by the
  holders, of record of a majority of all outstanding shares, entitled  to
  vote  thereon,  or  (e)  if also there is no stockholder of record, by a
  subscriber for shares  whose  subscription  has  been  accepted  or  his
  successor  in  interest,  or  (f) if also no subscription for shares has
  been accepted, by an incorporator or anyone acting in  his  stead  under
  subdivision  three  of  section  six  thousand fifteen. His name and the
  capacity in which any person  signs  such  instrument  shall  be  stated
  beneath  or  opposite his signature. The person signing such instrument,
  or if more than one person signs it, one of such persons shall verify or
  acknowledge the instrument if required by the section providing for such
  instrument.
    5. No such instrument shall be filed unless  it  shall  have  endorsed
  thereon   the   approval   of  the  superintendent.  No  certificate  of
  authentication or conformity or  other  proof  shall  be  required  with
  respect  to  any  verification, oath or acknowledgment of any instrument
  delivered  to  the  superintendent   under   this   chapter,   if   such
  verification, oath or acknowledgment purports to have been made before a
  notary  public,  or person performing the equivalent function, of one of
  the states, or any subdivision thereof, of  the  United  States  or  the
  District of Columbia.
    6. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, such instrument shall
  become effective upon the filing thereof by the superintendent.
    7.  The superintendent shall make, certify and transmit a copy of each
  such instrument to the clerk of the county in which the  office  of  the
  corporation  or  foreign corporation is or is to be located.  The county
  clerk shall file and index such copy.


::: 1004:certificates_corrections.html
 
    &#167; 1004. Certificates; corrections. Any certificate or other instrument
  relating   to   a  corporation  or  foreign  corporation  filed  by  the
  superintendent under this chapter may be corrected with respect  to  any
  informality  or  error  apparent  on the face or defect in the execution
  thereof including the deletion of any matter not permitted to be  stated
  therein.   A   certificate,   entitled  "Certificate  of  correction  of
  ............ (correct title of certificate and name  of  corporation  or
  foreign  corporation)"  shall  be  signed,  verified  or acknowledged as
  provided in this chapter with respect to the instrument being  corrected
  and  delivered to the superintendent. It shall set forth the name of the
  corporation or foreign  corporation,  the  date  the  instrument  to  be
  corrected  was  filed  by  the  superintendent,  the  provision  in  the
  instrument  as  corrected  or  eliminated  and  if  the  execution   was
  defective,  the  proper  execution. The filing of the certificate by the
  superintendent shall not alter the  effective  time  of  the  instrument
  being  corrected, which shall remain as its original effective date, and
  shall not affect any right or liability accrued or incurred before  such
  filing.  The  name  of the corporation or foreign corporation may not be
  changed or corrected under this section.


::: 1005:certificates_as_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 1005.   Certificates  as  evidence.  1.  Any  certificate  or  other
  instrument filed by the superintendent relating to a  corporation  or  a
  foreign  corporation  and  containing  statements  of  fact  required or
  permitted by law to be contained  therein,  shall  be  received  in  all
  courts,  public  offices  and official bodies as prima facie evidence of
  such facts and of the execution of such instrument.
    2. Whenever by the laws of any jurisdiction other than this state, any
  certificate by any officer  in  such  jurisdiction  or  a  copy  of  any
  instruments  certified  or  exemplified  by  any  such  officer,  may be
  received as prima facie evidence  of  the  incorporation,  existence  or
  capacity  of  any foreign corporation incorporated in such jurisdiction,
  or claiming so to be, such certificate when exemplified, or such copy of
  such instrument when exemplified shall be received in all courts, public
  offices and official bodies of this state, as prima facie evidence  with
  the  same  force  as in such jurisdiction. Such certificate or certified
  copy of such instrument shall be so received, without being exemplified,
  if it is certified by the secretary of state, or official performing the
  equivalent functions as to corporate records, of such jurisdiction.


::: 1006:corporate_seal_as_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 1006. Corporate seal as evidence. The presence of the corporate seal
  on  a  written  instrument  purporting  to be executed by authority of a
  corporation or a foreign corporation shall be prima facie evidence  that
  the instrument was so executed.


::: 1007:when_notice_or_lapse_of_time_unnecessary_notices_dispensed_with_when_delivery_is_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 1007.  When  notice  or lapse of time unnecessary; notices dispensed
  with when delivery is prohibited. 1. Whenever, under this article or the
  organization certificate or by-laws of any corporation or by  the  terms
  of  any  agreement  or  instrument,  a  corporation  or the board or any
  committee thereof is authorized to take any action after notice  to  any
  person  or  persons  or  after the lapse of a prescribed period of time,
  such action may be taken without notice and without the  lapse  of  such
  period  of time. If at any time before or after such action is completed
  the person or persons entitled to such notice or entitled to participate
  in the action to be taken or, in the  case  of  a  stockholder,  by  his
  attorney-in-fact, submit a signed waiver of notice of such requirements.
    2. Whenever any notice or communication is required to be given to any
  person  by  this article, the organization certificate or by-laws, or by
  the terms of any agreement or instrument, or as a condition precedent to
  taking any corporate action and communication with such person  is  then
  unlawful  under any statute of this state or of the United States or any
  regulation, proclamation or order issued under said statutes,  then  the
  giving  of  such  notice  or  communication  to such person shall not be
  required and there shall be no duty to apply  for  a  license  or  other
  permission  to  do  so.  Any  affidavit, certificate or other instrument
  which is required to be made or filed as proof  of  the  giving  of  any
  notice  or  communication  required  under  this  article shall, if such
  notice or communication to any  person  is  dispensed  with  under  this
  section,  include  a statement that such notice or communication was not
  given to any person with whom communication is unlawful. Such affidavit,
  certificate or other instrument shall be as effective for  all  purposes
  as though such notice or communication had been personally given to such
  person.


::: 1008:effect_of_invalidity_of_part_of_article_severability.html
 
    &#167; 1008. Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability.  If any
  provision  of  this  article  or  application  thereof  to any person or
  circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall  not  affect  other
  provisions  or  applications  of  this article which can be given effect
  without the invalid provision  or  application,  and  to  this  end  the
  provisions of this article are declared severable.


::: 100:fiduciary_powers.html
 
    &#167; 100. Fiduciary  powers.  Every  trust company shall have, subject to
  the  restrictions  and  limitations  contained  in  this  chapter,   the
  following powers:
    1.  To  act  as the fiscal or transfer agent of the United States, any
  state, municipality, body politic or corporation; and in  such  capacity
  to  receive  and  disburse  money, to transfer, register and countersign
  certificates of stock, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness or other
  securities, and to act as attorney in fact or agent  of  any  person  or
  corporation, foreign or domestic, for any lawful purpose.
    2.  To  act  as  trustee  under  any  mortgage  or bonds issued by any
  municipality, body politic or  corporation,  foreign  or  domestic,  and
  accept and execute any other municipal or corporate trust not prohibited
  by the laws of this state.
    3.  To  be  appointed and to act under the order or appointment of any
  court of competent jurisdiction:
    (a) As guardian, receiver, trustee, committee or  conservator  of  the
  estate  of  any  minor,  mentally  ill person, mentally retarded person,
  person of unsound mind, alcohol abuser or conservatee or  in  any  other
  fiduciary capacity;
    (b)  As  receiver,  trustee, or committee of the property or estate of
  any person in insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings.
    4. To be appointed and to accept the appointment  of  executor  or  of
  trustee  under  the  last  will  and  testament or administrator with or
  without the will annexed of the estate of any deceased person.
    5. To take, accept and execute any and all  such  trusts,  duties  and
  powers  of  whatever  nature  or description as may be conferred upon or
  entrusted or committed to it by any  person  or  persons,  or  any  body
  politic,  corporation, domestic or foreign, or other authority by grant,
  assignment, transfer, devise, bequest or  otherwise,  or  which  may  be
  entrusted  or committed or transferred to it or vested in it by order of
  any court of competent jurisdiction, or any surrogate, and  to  receive,
  take,  manage, hold and dispose of according to the terms of such trust,
  duty or power, any property or estate, real or personal,  which  may  be
  the subject of any such trust, duty or power.
    Provided  that  no trust company shall have any right or power to make
  any contract, or to accept or execute any trust whatever, which it would
  not be lawful for any individual to make, accept or execute.


::: 101:additional_powers_of_certain_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 101.  Additional  powers  of  certain  trust  companies. Every trust
  company which at the time this act takes effect lawfully  possesses  and
  exercises  the  power,  for  hire,  to examine titles to real estate, to
  procure and furnish information in relation thereto, and to guarantee or
  insure the title to real estate to  persons  interested,  in  such  real
  estate  or  in  mortgages  thereon, against loss, by reason of defective
  title or other encumbrances of or upon, such real estate, shall continue
  to possess such power, but no other trust company shall  hereafter  have
  or exercise such power.


::: 102-a:limited_liability_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167;  102-a.  Limited liability trust companies. 1. Trust companies which
  (a) do not receive deposits from the general public and  (b)  have  been
  exempted   by   the   superintendent  of  financial  services  from  the
  requirements of section thirty-two of this chapter, may  be  formed  and
  operated  as  limited  liability trust companies. Such limited liability
  trust companies shall be formed in accordance  with,  shall  operate  in
  compliance  with,  and shall meet all of the requirements of the limited
  liability company law and this chapter, except that to  the  extent  any
  provision  of  the  limited  liability company law shall be inconsistent
  with the provisions of this chapter,  the  provisions  of  this  chapter
  shall  govern; provided, however, that limited liability trust companies
  shall not have perpetual existence.
    2. Notwithstanding any other provision  of  this  chapter,  a  limited
  liability trust company shall dissolve and its affairs shall be wound up
  upon  the occurrence of any event specified in section seven hundred one
  of the limited liability company  law.  Upon  such  a  dissolution,  the
  provisions of this chapter shall govern the winding up of the affairs of
  the  limited liability trust company and the distribution of its assets.
  Further, upon such a dissolution, if the members of a limited  liability
  trust company wish to continue the existence of the company and meet the
  requirements  of  section  seven  hundred  one  of the limited liability
  company law, they shall apply for and may receive the  approval  of  the
  superintendent  for new articles of organization and a new authorization
  certificate.
    3. Trust companies which have been formed and are  operating  pursuant
  to  this  article  and  article fifteen of this chapter on the effective
  date of this section, and which meet the requirements of subdivision one
  of this section,  may,  with  the  approval  of  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services,  convert  into  limited  liability trust companies,
  provided that they meet all of the other requirements of this chapter as
  if they were newly formed companies.
    4. The superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered to make  such
  general  rules  and  regulations  as  may  be  necessary  and  proper to
  effectuate the provisions of this chapter relating to the formation  and
  operation of limited liability trust companies.


::: 102:powers_of_specially_chartered_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 102.  Powers  of  specially  chartered  trust companies. Every trust
  company incorporated by a special law shall possess the powers of  trust
  companies  incorporated  under this chapter and shall be subject to such
  provisions of this chapter as are not inconsistent with the special laws
  relating to such specially chartered company.


::: 103:restrictions_on_loans_purchases_of_securities_total_liabilities_and_other_credit_exposures_to_a_bank_or_trust_company_of_any_one_person.html
 
    &#167; 103.* Restrictions  on  loans,  purchases  of  securities  and total
  liabilities to bank or trust company of any one person.
    * NB Effective until notification of the superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * Restrictions  on  loans,  purchases of securities, total liabilities
  and other credit exposures to a bank or trust company of any one person.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    No bank or trust company shall:
    1. Lend to any person (which term shall mean, for the purposes of this
  subdivision,  any  individual,  partnership, unincorporated association,
  corporation or body politic) an amount which  will  exceed  fifteen  per
  centum  of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such
  bank or trust company. Any extension of credit to a person by  means  of
  the  issue  or  confirmation of irrevocable sight letters of credit upon
  the responsibility of such person,  or  by  means  of  the  discount  or
  purchase  of,  or  investment  in,  bills  of  exchange,  notes,  bonds,
  debentures or other obligations made, drawn or accepted by such  person,
  shall  be  considered  a  loan  to  such person for the purposes of this
  subdivision except that (1) in the case of an accepted bill of exchange,
  the loan shall be considered, subject to clause (2) below, to be made to
  the acceptor and not to the drawer; and (2) if  any  bill  of  exchange,
  note, bond, debenture or other obligation is endorsed without limitation
  or  guaranteed  by any person and discounted with, or sold to, such bank
  or trust company by such person, the loan shall be considered a loan  to
  such  person  and  not  to the maker, drawer or acceptor of such bill of
  exchange, note, bond,  debenture  or  other  obligation.  The  foregoing
  limitation is subject to the following exceptions:
    (a)  The  limitations  in  this subdivision shall not apply to (1) any
  loan to the extent that the United  States,  this  state  or  any  city,
  county,  town,  village  or  school  district  of  this  state,  or  any
  department, agency or instrumentality of the United States or this state
  designated by the superintendent by general or specific regulation,  has
  agreed  to  pay  the  principal  and interest thereof, or has guaranteed
  payment (by guaranty or commitment to purchase  or  otherwise)  of  such
  principal  and  interest, or is committed to supply, by loan, subsidy or
  otherwise, funds sufficient to pay such principal and interest,  or  has
  otherwise pledged its faith and credit for the payment of such principal
  and  interest;  or  (2)  any loan secured by not less than a like amount
  (based on their principal amount or market value, whichever is lower, at
  the time the loan is made) of direct obligations of the United States or
  of this state or of any city, county, town, village or  school  district
  of  this  state  or of any such department, agency or instrumentality of
  the United States or  this  state  or  by  obligations  otherwise  fully
  guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
    (b) The limitations in this subdivision shall not apply to any loan to
  the  extent such loan is secured by cash collateral which is not subject
  to withdrawal.
    In addition, the limitations in this subdivision shall not  apply  (i)
  to  loans  arising  from  the  discount  of commercial or business paper
  evidencing an obligation to the person  negotiating  it  with  recourse;
  (ii)  to loans to the student loan marketing association; (iii) to loans
  to  any  financial  institution  or  to   any   receiver,   conservator,
  superintendent  of  financial  services, or other agent in charge of the
  business and property of such financial institutions when such loans are
  approved by  the  superintendent;  (iv)  to  the  purchase  of  bankers'
  acceptances  of  the  kind described in section 13 of an act of congress
  entitled  the  "Federal  Reserve  Act"  and  issued  by  other   banking
  corporations;  and  (v)  to loans made to facilitate prompt clearance or
  settlement arising from the  purchase  or  sale  of  readily  marketable
  securities  which loans (A) are secured by readily marketable securities
  having  a market value or a principal face amount (whichever is less) at
  the time the loan is made of not less than the principal amount of  said
  loan,  and  (B)  shall  be required to be repaid upon settlement of such
  purchase or sale.
    (c) Loans (exclusive of any loan described in paragraph  (a)  of  this
  subdivision)  to  any  state other than the state of New York, or to any
  foreign nation, the New York State  thruway  authority,  the  Triborough
  bridge  and tunnel authority, The Port of New York Authority, a railroad
  corporation, a  municipal  corporation  of  this  state,  a  corporation
  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  a  public service commission of this
  state,  or  any  international  lending  facility  or   public   benefit
  corporation  designated  by  the superintendent by regulation, may equal
  but not exceed twenty-five per centum of the capital stock, surplus fund
  and undivided profits of such bank or trust company.
    (d) Loans to any person, other than loans described in paragraph  (a),
  (b) or (c) of this subdivision, may equal but not exceed twenty-five per
  centum  of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such
  bank or trust company, provided such loans either in whole or  in  part,
  but  in  any  event that part thereof in excess of fifteen per centum of
  such capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits:
    (1) are upon, or with respect to, drafts or bills of exchange drawn in
  good  faith  against  actually  existing  values,   or   upon   bankers'
  acceptances  or  bills  of  exchange  of  the  kinds and maturities made
  eligible by law for purchase in  the  open  market  by  federal  reserve
  banks; or
    (2)  are  secured by collateral having an ascertained market value, or
  otherwise having a value as collateral as found  in  good  faith  by  an
  officer  of  such bank or trust company, at least equal to the excess of
  such loans over fifteen per centum of such capital stock,  surplus  fund
  and undivided profits.
    (d-1) Loans secured by bills of lading, warehouse receipts, or similar
  documents  transferring  or securing title to readily marketable staples
  shall be subject to a  limitation  of  thirty-five  per  centum  of  the
  capital  stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such bank or trust
  company in addition to the general limitations if the  market  value  of
  the staples securing each additional loan at all times equals or exceeds
  one  hundred  fifteen per centum of the outstanding amount of such loan.
  The staples shall be fully covered by insurance whenever it is customary
  to insure such staples.
    (d-2) Loans secured by shipping documents or instruments  transferring
  or  securing title covering livestock or giving a lien on livestock when
  the market value of the livestock securing the obligation is not at  any
  time  less than one hundred fifteen per centum of the face amount of the
  note covered,  shall  be  subject  to  a  maximum  limitation  equal  to
  twenty-five  per centum of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided
  profits of such bank or trust company.
    In addition, loans which arise from the discount by dealers  in  dairy
  cattle of paper given in payment for dairy cattle, which paper carries a
  full  recourse endorsement or unconditional guarantee of the seller, and
  which are secured by the cattle  being  sold,  shall  be  subject  to  a
  limitation  of twenty-five per centum of the capital stock, surplus fund
  and undivided profits of such bank or trust company.
    (e) In computing the total loans by any bank or trust company  (i)  to
  any  individual,  there shall be included all loans by the bank or trust
  company to any partnership or unincorporated association of which he  is
  a  member, and all loans made for his benefit or for the benefit of such
  partnership or association; (ii) to any  partnership  or  unincorporated
  association,  there  shall  be  included  all loans by the bank or trust
  company  to  its  individual  members  and all loans made by the bank or
  trust company for the benefit  of  such  partnership  or  unincorporated
  association  or  any member thereof; and (iii) to any corporation, there
  shall be included all loans made by the bank or trust  company  for  the
  benefit  of  the  corporation. A loan shall be deemed to be made for the
  benefit of a corporation only to the extent that the  proceeds  of  such
  loan (1) are to be loaned to the corporation; (2) are to be used for the
  acquisition  (otherwise  than in connection with a public offering) from
  the corporation by a person in control of, or under common control with,
  the corporation,  of  any  stock  or  other  securities  issued  by  the
  corporation,  or  (3)  are  to be transferred to the corporation without
  fair and adequate consideration, and  the  discharge  of  an  equivalent
  amount  of debt previously incurred in good faith and for value shall be
  considered fair and adequate consideration. A loan shall not  be  deemed
  to  be  made  for the benefit of a corporation if such loan is made to a
  person other  than  the  corporation  and  is  secured  as  provided  in
  subdivision  four  of this section or is secured by collateral having an
  ascertained market value, or otherwise having a value as  collateral  as
  found  in  good  faith  by  an officer of such bank or trust company, at
  least equal to the amount of the loan;  provided  that  stock  or  other
  securities  issued  by, or a lien on property of, such corporation shall
  not be considered collateral for the purposes of this provision.
    (f) The limitations  in  this  subdivision  shall  not  apply  to  the
  acceptance  of bills of exchange or the issue or confirmation of letters
  of credit calling for acceptances by a bank or  trust  company,  but  no
  bank or trust company shall make acceptances, or issue letters of credit
  calling  for  acceptances,  upon  the responsibility of any person to an
  amount in excess of fifteen per centum of  the  capital  stock,  surplus
  fund  and  undivided  profits of such bank or trust company, unless that
  part thereof in excess of fifteen per  centum  of  such  capital  stock,
  surplus  fund  and undivided profits is, and will remain, secured either
  by accompanying documents or by some other actual security  growing  out
  of  the same transaction as the acceptance or by substituted security of
  similar character.
    (g) Loans arising from the discount of  negotiable  or  non-negotiable
  installment  consumer paper which carries a full recourse endorsement or
  unconditional guarantee by the transferor of such paper shall be subject
  to a limitation of twenty-five per centum of the capital stock,  surplus
  fund  and  undivided  profits  of such bank or trust company. Within the
  meaning of this subdivision, the liability to such bank or trust company
  of  any   individual,   partnership,   unincorporated   association   or
  corporation  as  endorser  or  guarantor of negotiable or non-negotiable
  instalment consumer paper shall not be deemed a loan to such individual,
  partnership, unincorporated association or corporation to the extent  of
  the  value  of  the  obligation  thereon of the maker of such instalment
  consumer paper, as found in good faith in writing by an officer of  such
  bank   or   trust  company,  designated  to  make  such  evaluation  and
  certification by the board of directors of the bank  or  trust  company,
  and  upon the further certification by the said officer that the bank or
  trust company is relying  primarily  on  the  maker  of  the  instalment
  consumer  paper  for  the payment of an amount owing upon the instalment
  consumer paper upon the security of which the bank or trust  company  is
  making   the  loan  or  in  which  it  is  making  the  investment.  The
  certifications are to be  made  at  the  time  of  making  the  loan  or
  investment, and are to be based on information contained in the files of
  the  bank  or  trust  company,  or  on  the  personal  knowledge  of the
  designated officer. Instalment consumer paper, for the purposes of  this
  section,  shall  mean  retail instalment contracts and retail instalment
  obligations  as  defined  in  subdivisions six and six-a of section four
  hundred ninety-one of this chapter, and similar agreements entered  into
  outside of this state.
    (h) The limitations in this subdivision shall not apply to any advance
  of  federal  funds  by  such bank or trust company to a commercial bank,
  provided such advance is made on the condition that it be repaid on  the
  next  business  day  following the day on which the advance is made. For
  purposes of this paragraph, the term "federal funds" shall mean funds on
  deposit at a federal reserve bank or funds on deposit  at  a  commercial
  bank  which  are  exchangeable for funds on deposit at a federal reserve
  bank; the term "commercial bank" shall mean  any  bank,  trust  company,
  private  banker,  national  banking association, any banking corporation
  organized under the laws of the United States or any state of the United
  States and engaged in a commercial  banking  business,  or  any  banking
  corporation  organized under the laws of any foreign country and engaged
  in the commercial banking business that maintains  a  branch  or  agency
  licensed  by  any  state  of the United States or the comptroller of the
  currency; and the term "business day" shall mean any day  on  which  the
  bank  or trust company making the advance, the commercial bank obtaining
  the advance and any federal reserve bank or  banks  through  which  such
  advance was effected are all open for general business.
    * (i)  The  limitations  in  this  subdivision  shall not apply to the
  investment of such bank or trust company in the bonds, debentures, notes
  or  other  obligations  of  any  person,  provided:  (i)   such   bonds,
  debentures,  notes  or  other  obligations mature not less than one year
  after their respective dates of issuance,  and,  at  the  time  of  such
  investment,  are  rated  in one of the three highest rating grades by an
  independent rating service designated by the superintendent of financial
  services; (ii) such investment does not exceed fifteen per centum of the
  capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such bank or  trust
  company;  and  (iii)  such  investment  complies  with  such  additional
  limitations and conditions as the superintendent of  financial  services
  from time to time may prescribe by general regulation.
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (i) The limitations in this  subdivision  shall  not  apply  to  the
  investment of such bank or trust company in the bonds, debentures, notes
  or   other   obligations  of  any  person,  provided:  (i)  such  bonds,
  debentures, notes or other obligations mature not  less  than  one  year
  after  their  respective  dates  of  issuance,  and, at the time of such
  investment,  meet  the  standards  of  creditworthiness  established  by
  regulation  by  the superintendent; (ii) such investment does not exceed
  fifteen per centum of the capital  stock,  surplus  fund  and  undivided
  profits  of  such  bank  or  trust  company;  and  (iii) such investment
  complies  with  such  additional  limitations  and  conditions  as   the
  superintendent from time to time may prescribe by regulation.
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (j) In the case of a  trust  company  which  (1)  does  not  receive
  deposits  from  the  general  public  and  (2)  has been exempted by the
  superintendent of financial services from the  requirements  of  section
  thirty-two  of  this  chapter, the limitations of this subdivision shall
  not apply to  the  investment  of  such  trust  company  in  the  bonds,
  debentures,  notes  or  other obligations of, any foreign nation, or any
  political subdivision, agency or instrumentality thereof, provided:  (i)
  at  the  time of such investment, such bonds, debentures, notes or other
  obligations are rated in one of the three highest rating  grades  by  an
  independent rating service designated by the superintendent of financial
  services;   (ii)   for  any  such  bonds,  debentures,  notes  or  other
  obligations, the foreign nation, or any political subdivision, agency or
  instrumentality  thereof,  has  guaranteed  payment  (by   guaranty   or
  commitment  to purchase or otherwise) of such principal and interest, or
  is committed to supply, by loan, subsidy or otherwise, funds  sufficient
  to  pay  such principal and interest, or has otherwise pledged its faith
  and credit for the payment of such principal and  interest;  (iii)  such
  investments  do  not exceed the per centum applicable to such obligor of
  the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of  such  bank  or
  trust  company  as  the  superintendent  shall  approve,  and  (iv) such
  investments  comply  with  such  limitations  and  conditions   as   the
  superintendent may from time to time prescribe.
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (j) In the case of a  trust  company  which  (1)  does  not  receive
  deposits  from  the  general  public  and  (2)  has been exempted by the
  superintendent from the  requirements  of  section  thirty-two  of  this
  chapter,  the  limitations  of  this  subdivision shall not apply to the
  investment of such trust company in  the  bonds,  debentures,  notes  or
  other  obligations of, any foreign nation, or any political subdivision,
  agency or instrumentality thereof, provided: (i) at  the  time  of  such
  investment,  such bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations meet the
  standards  of  creditworthiness  established  by   regulation   by   the
  superintendent;  (ii)  for  any  such  bonds, debentures, notes or other
  obligations, the foreign nation, or any political subdivision, agency or
  instrumentality  thereof,  has  guaranteed  payment  (by   guaranty   or
  commitment  to purchase or otherwise) of such principal and interest, or
  is committed to supply, by loan, subsidy or otherwise, funds  sufficient
  to  pay  such principal and interest, or has otherwise pledged its faith
  and credit for the payment of such principal and  interest;  (iii)  such
  investments  do  not exceed the per centum applicable to such obligor of
  the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of  such  bank  or
  trust  company  as  the  superintendent  shall  approve;  and  (iv) such
  investments  comply  with  such  limitations  and  conditions   as   the
  superintendent may from time to time prescribe.
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (k) In the case of a  trust  company  which  (1)  does  not  receive
  deposits  from  the  general  public  and  (2)  has been exempted by the
  superintendent of financial services from the  requirements  of  section
  thirty-two  of  this  chapter, the limitations of this subdivision shall
  not apply to the  purchase  of  securities  under  repurchase  agreement
  provided  that  the repurchase agreement relates to not less than a like
  amount of direct obligations (based on their principal amount or  market
  value,  whichever  is  lower,  at  the  time the purchase occurs) of any
  foreign nation, or any political subdivision, agency or  instrumentality
  thereof,  provided:  (i)  at  the  time  of  such  purchase, such direct
  obligations are rated in one of the three highest rating  grades  by  an
  independent rating service designated by the superintendent of financial
  services;  (ii)  for any such direct obligations, the foreign nation, or
  any  political  subdivision,  agency  or  instrumentality  thereof,  has
  guaranteed  payment (by guaranty or commitment to purchase or otherwise)
  of the principal and interest thereof, or is  committed  to  supply,  by
  loan,  subsidy  or otherwise, funds sufficient to pay such principal and
  interest, or has otherwise pledged its faith and credit for the  payment
  of  such  principal  and  interest;  (iii)  the  purchase  price of such
  securities does not exceed the per centum applicable to the  obligor  of
  such securities of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits
  of  such  bank or trust company as the superintendent shall approve; and
  (iv) such purchase complies with such limitations and conditions as  the
  superintendent may from time to time prescribe.
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (k) In the case of a  trust  company  which  (1)  does  not  receive
  deposits  from  the  general  public  and  (2)  has been exempted by the
  superintendent from the  requirements  of  section  thirty-two  of  this
  chapter,  the  limitations  of  this  subdivision shall not apply to the
  purchase of securities under  repurchase  agreement  provided  that  the
  repurchase  agreement  relates  to not less than a like amount of direct
  obligations (based on their principal amount or market value,  whichever
  is lower, at the time the purchase occurs) of any foreign nation, or any
  political  subdivision, agency or instrumentality thereof, provided: (i)
  at the time of such purchase, such direct obligations meet the standards
  of creditworthiness established by  regulation  by  the  superintendent;
  (ii)  for  any  such  direct  obligations,  the  foreign  nation, or any
  political subdivision, agency or instrumentality thereof, has guaranteed
  payment (by guaranty or commitment to  purchase  or  otherwise)  of  the
  principal  and  interest  thereof,  or  is committed to supply, by loan,
  subsidy or  otherwise,  funds  sufficient  to  pay  such  principal  and
  interest,  or has otherwise pledged its faith and credit for the payment
  of such principal  and  interest;  (iii)  the  purchase  price  of  such
  securities  does  not exceed the per centum applicable to the obligor of
  such securities of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits
  of such bank or trust company as the superintendent shall  approve;  and
  (iv)  such purchase complies with such limitations and conditions as the
  superintendent may from time to time prescribe.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * The  superintendent  of  financial  services  shall  be empowered to
  promulgate rules and regulations as shall be appropriate  to  carry  out
  the purposes of this subdivision.
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * The superintendent  shall  be  empowered  to  promulgate  rules  and
  regulations  as  shall  be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this
  subdivision.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * The  superintendent also shall be authorized to determine the manner
  and  extent  to  which  credit  exposure   resulting   from   derivative
  transactions,  repurchase  agreements,  reverse  repurchase  agreements,
  securities lending transactions and  securities  borrowing  transactions
  shall  be  taken  into  account for purposes of this section. As used in
  this section, the term "derivative transaction" includes any transaction
  that is a contract, agreement, swap, warrant, note  or  option  that  is
  based,  in  whole  or  in  part,  on  the value of, any interest in, any
  quantitative measure of, or the occurrence of any event relating to, one
  or more commodities, securities, currencies, interest  or  other  rates,
  indices   or   other   assets.   In   making  such  determinations,  the
  superintendent may, but is not required to, act by order or regulation.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    4. Make a loan upon the security of real estate within or without this
  state  which  does  not comply with any such rules or regulations as the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe.
    No  loan shall be made under the provisions of this subdivision except
  upon the written  and  signed  certificate  of  an  appraiser  appointed
  pursuant  to  policies established by the board of directors, certifying
  to the value of the premises according to his judgment.
    The provisions of this subdivision shall not constitute the  authority
  to make a loan to a natural person upon the security of a mortgage which
  is not a first lien.
    Where  the  collateral  for  any  loan  consists partly of real estate
  security  and  partly  of  other  security,  including  a  guarantee  or
  endorsement by or an obligation or commitment of a person other than the
  borrower,  only  the  amount  by  which  the  loan  exceeds the value as
  collateral of such other security, as found in  good  faith  by  a  duly
  authorized  officer  of  such  bank or trust company, at the time of the
  making of the loan or commitment therefor, shall be  considered  a  loan
  upon  the  security  of  real estate, provided, that in no event shall a
  loan be considered a loan upon the security of real estate (i) where the
  principal amount of any real estate security taken therefor is less than
  fifteen per centum of the amount of such loan or (ii) where the loan  is
  payable in monthly or quarterly installments over a period not to exceed
  one  hundred  twenty-one  months  and  does  not  exceed twenty thousand
  dollars and is for the purpose  of  paying  the  cost  of  any  repairs,
  alterations  or  improvements  upon,  or  in connection with, or, as the
  superintendent may authorize, the equipping of  existing  structures  or
  the  building  of new structures by the owners thereof or by the lessees
  under a lease expiring not less than six months after  the  maturity  of
  the  loan  or (iii) where the loan is fully guaranteed or insured by the
  United States or a state, or any department, agency  or  instrumentality
  thereof,  and for the payment of which loan the full faith and credit of
  the United States or of such state is pledged and if under the terms  of
  the  guaranty  or  insurance agreement the bank or trust company will be
  assured of repayment in accordance with the terms of the  loan  or  (iv)
  where  there  is  a  binding  and  valid  commitment  or  agreement by a
  financially  responsible  lender,   purchaser   or   other   financially
  responsible party either directly with the lending bank or trust company
  or  which  is  for  the benefit of, or has been assigned to, the lending
  bank or trust company and pursuant to  which  commitment,  agreement  or
  assignment,  the lender, purchaser or other party is required to advance
  to the lending bank or trust company within thirty months from the  date
  of  such  commitment or agreement the full amount of the loan to be made
  by the lending bank or trust company upon the security  of  real  estate
  improved  by a building or buildings, or to be improved by a building or
  buildings in the process of construction, the  major  portion  of  which
  building  is used, or in the case of a building under construction is to
  be  used,  for  residential,  business,  manufacturing  or  agricultural
  purposes,  and  where  pursuant  to  the  terms  and  provisions of such
  commitment or agreement such advance shall be made prior to or upon  the
  maturity of the loan by the lending bank or trust company.
    Real  estate  security  for purposes of this section shall not include
  (a) an assignment of rents under a lease, (b) a mortgage or  other  lien
  upon  a  leasehold, (c) a mortgage or other lien upon leasehold, royalty
  or other rights  in  oil,  gas,  minerals,  standing  timber,  or  other
  products  of  land, (d) a mortgage or other lien made or given upon real
  estate and taken  as  collateral  security  for  loans  to  a  borrower,
  provided,  that  at  the  time  of  the making of the loan or commitment
  therefor, repayment thereof is reasonably expected to be made out of the
  operations of such borrower or of the mortgagor, or (e)  such  mortgages
  or  other  liens  on  property  as may be specifically exempted from the
  limitations and restrictions of this subdivision by  the  superintendent
  of  financial  services  by general or specific regulations adopted by a
  three-fifths vote of all its members. Nothing in this paragraph shall be
  construed to imply that security of a kind not mentioned herein is to be
  deemed real estate security.
    The limitations and restrictions contained in this  subdivision  shall
  not  prevent  the  acceptance  of any real estate security to secure the
  payment of a debt previously contracted in good  faith.  Every  mortgage
  and  every  assignment of a mortgage taken or held by such bank or trust
  company shall immediately be recorded or registered in its name  in  the
  office  of  the  clerk  or the proper recording officer of the county in
  which the real estate described in the mortgage is located, except  that
  where  the  underlying  real  estate is located outside the state of New
  York such mortgage or assignment may be recorded or  registered  in  the
  name  of  a duly authorized nominee, and except that if such mortgage or
  assignment of mortgage or of an interest therein shall be taken  from  a
  corporation  organized under the banking law or all of the capital stock
  of which is owned by not less than twenty savings banks of  this  state,
  the  bank  or  trust  company  may  hold  such  mortgage  or  assignment
  unrecorded unless the superintendent shall  direct  the  bank  or  trust
  company  to record the same. The recording or registering of assignments
  of mortgages shall not be required when not less than ten mortgages  are
  assigned  as  security  for  a  loan,  the term of which does not exceed
  twelve months.
    Any bank or trust company may renew from time to time  any  loan  upon
  the security of real estate lawfully made by it prior to June thirtieth,
  nineteen hundred thirty-seven.
    None   of   the   prohibitions  and  restrictions  contained  in  this
  subdivision shall apply to any corporation all of the capital  stock  of
  which is owned by not less than twenty savings banks of this state.
    4-a. A bank or trust company may, in addition to the authority granted
  under  any  other  provisions  of this article, make a loan to a natural
  person upon the security of a mortgage which is not a first lien at  the
  rate  or  rates agreed to by the bank or trust company and the borrower,
  subject to such regulations as the superintendent of financial  services
  may  prescribe.  Such  regulations  by  the  superintendent of financial
  services  may  include  such  restrictions  as  the  superintendent   of
  financial   services   finds  necessary  or  proper,  including  without
  limitation, a restriction as to the percentage of total assets which may
  be invested in such loans or a restriction  on  the  loan  to  appraisal
  value of property securing such loan.
    For  purposes  of  this subdivision, the term mortgage shall include a
  lien on an existing ownership interest in certificates of stock or other
  evidence of an ownership interest in, and a proprietary  lease  from,  a
  corporation  or  partnership  formed  for the purpose of the cooperative
  ownership of real estate.
    5. Make any loan for the purpose  of  financing  the  purchase  of  or
  refinancing  an  existing ownership interest in certificates of stock or
  other evidence of an ownership interest  in,  and  a  proprietary  lease
  from,  a  corporation  or  partnership  formed  for  the  purpose of the
  cooperative ownership of real estate, unsecured except to the extent  of
  an assignment or transfer of the stock certificates or other evidence of
  ownership  interest  of  the  borrower  and the proprietary lease within
  ninety days from the making of the loan, which shall exceed the  maximum
  per  cent  of the loan permitted to be made on real estate improved by a
  single family  residence  occupied  by  the  owner,  provided  that  for
  purposes  of  this  section  the  amount  of the purchase price shall be
  deemed to equal the appraised value of  such  certificate  of  stock  or
  other  evidence  of  an  ownership  interest,  or,  in  the  case  of  a
  refinancing,  the appraised value of such certificates of stock or other
  evidence of an ownership interest and which shall fail  to  provide  for
  full repayment of principal and interest within the same number of years
  as   a   conventional   mortgage   loan  previously  described  in  this
  subdivision, provided that all real estate owned by such corporation  or
  partnership  shall  be  located within the state; and provided, further,
  that  such  loan  shall  be  subject  to   such   regulations   as   the
  superintendent  of  financial services may from time to time promulgate.
  The maximum rate of interest which may be  charged,  taken  or  received
  upon  any  loan  or  forbearance  made  pursuant to this subdivision may
  exceed  the  rate  of  interest  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  of
  financial services in accordance with section fourteen-a by no more than
  one and one-half per centum per annum.
    6.  Make any loan or discount on the security of the shares of its own
  capital stock, or, except as provided in section five thousand twelve of
  this chapter, be the purchaser of any such shares, unless such  security
  or  purchase  shall  be  necessary to minimize or avoid loss upon a debt
  previously contracted in good faith, and stock  so  purchased  shall  be
  sold  at  public  or  private sale, or otherwise disposed of, within six
  months from the time of its purchase  unless  the  superintendent  shall
  authorize  such bank or trust company in writing to hold such shares for
  a longer period.  Any  bank  or  trust  company  violating  any  of  the
  provisions  of this subdivision shall forfeit to the people of the state
  twice the amount of the loan or purchase.
    7. Knowingly lend, directly or indirectly, any money or  property  for
  the  purpose  of  enabling  any  person to pay for or hold shares of its
  stock, unless the loan is  made  upon  security  having  an  ascertained
  market  value of at least fifteen per centum more than the amount of the
  loan. Any bank  or  trust  company  violating  the  provisions  of  this
  subdivision shall forfeit to the people of the state twice the amount of
  the loan.
    8.  Except  in  conformity  with  such rules and regulations as may be
  promulgated by  the  superintendent,  lend  any  sum  of  money  to  any
  executive  officer  or  director  of  such  bank  or  trust company. The
  superintendent shall have power to determine by regulation who shall  be
  considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be an executive
  officer  and  what  shall  be  considered,  under the provisions of this
  subdivision, to be a loan to an executive officer or director. In making
  such determination, the superintendent shall have power  to  include  or
  exclude, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as he shall
  prescribe,  any or all of the following: (1) any transaction as a result
  of which an executive officer or director of a  bank  or  trust  company
  becomes  obligated  to  such bank or trust company upon any note, draft,
  bill of exchange or other  indebtedness,  as  maker,  drawer,  endorser,
  guarantor,  surety  or otherwise; and (2) any transaction as a result of
  which a corporation, in which an executive officer or  director  or  any
  combination  of  such persons, owns or controls a majority of the stock,
  or as a result of which a partnership in which an executive  officer  or
  director  is  a  partner,  becomes obligated or renews its obligation to
  such bank or trust company upon any note, draft,  bill  of  exchange  or
  other  indebtedness,  as  maker,  drawer, endorser, guarantor, surety or
  otherwise. Every bank or trust company violating this provision  or  any
  regulation issued pursuant thereto and every officer or director of such
  bank  or  trust company knowingly participating in such violation shall,
  for each offense, forfeit to the people of the state twice the amount of
  the loan.
    No  executive  officer  or  director  of a bank or trust company shall
  borrow from the bank or trust  company  of  which  he  is  an  executive
  officer or director except as permitted by this section.


::: 104:entries_in_books_restrictions_amortization_of_securities.html
 
    &#167; 104.  Entries in books; restrictions; amortization of securities. 1.
  No bank or trust company shall by any system of accounting or any device
  of bookkeeping, directly or indirectly enter any of its assets upon  its
  books  in  the  name  of  any  individual,  partnership,  unincorporated
  association  or  of  any  other  corporation,  or  under  any  title  or
  designation  that is not truly descriptive thereof, except as authorized
  by the provisions of this article.
    2. The stocks, bonds and other interest-bearing  securities  purchased
  by  a  bank or trust company shall be entered on its books at the actual
  cost thereof, and shall not thereafter be carried upon the  books  at  a
  valuation  exceeding  their  cost  as  adjusted  by amortization for the
  purpose of bringing them to par at maturity except that the same may  be
  carried  at  cost  if appropriate amortization reserve is set up for the
  purpose of bringing them to par at maturity. Where securities  purchased
  at  a  premium  are callable prior to maturity, the rate of amortization
  thereof shall be increased where  necessary  to  such  extent  as  shall
  reduce the amount at which such securities are carried upon the books to
  the  call  price  at  the  date  or dates upon which a call may be made;
  provided, however, that no adjustment for amortization  or  amortization
  reserve  shall  be  required  to  be  made  on the books except when net
  profits are computed. The superintendent  may  by  regulation  vary  the
  requirements  of this subdivision to permit the amortization of premiums
  at  the  same  rate  as  that  required  by  federal  tax  statutes   or
  regulations.
    3. No bank or trust company shall, except with the written approval of
  the  superintendent, enter on its books its real estate and the building
  or buildings thereon, or its fixtures, vaults, furniture and  equipment,
  at  a valuation exceeding the actual cost to such bank or trust company,
  or carry such real estate,  building  or  buildings,  fixtures,  vaults,
  furniture  or  equipment  at  a valuation exceeding the actual cost less
  appropriate allowances for depreciation except  that  the  same  may  be
  carried at cost if appropriate depreciation reserve is set up; provided,
  however, no adjustment for depreciation or depreciation reserve shall be
  required to be made on the books except when net profits are computed.
    4.  Real  estate  acquired by a bank or trust company, other than that
  acquired for use as a place of business, shall be entered on  the  books
  of the bank or trust company in conformity with the method of accounting
  for  troubled  debt  restructurings approved by the financial accounting
  standards boards or such other method of accounting as may be authorized
  or required by rules and regulations of the superintendent of  financial
  services.
    The   provisions   of  this  subdivision  shall  not,  except  as  the
  superintendent may otherwise require, apply to any parcel of real estate
  as to which the bank or  trust  company  has  exercised  its  option  to
  transfer  or  convey  such real estate to the veterans administration or
  the federal housing commissioner pursuant to insurance or guaranty.
    5. Every bank and every trust company shall  conform  its  methods  of
  keeping its books and records to such orders in respect thereto as shall
  have been made and promulgated by the superintendent pursuant to article
  two  of this chapter. Any bank or trust company that refuses or neglects
  to obey such order shall be  subject  to  a  penalty  in  an  amount  as
  determined  pursuant  to section forty-four of this chapter for each day
  it so refuses or neglects.
    6. Every bank and every trust company holding any funds or money  paid
  into  court  shall  keep records in which it shall make an exact account
  thereof,  including  appropriate  references  to  the  order  or  orders
  pursuant to which such funds are held.


::: 105-a:electronic_facilities.html
 
    &#167; 105-a.  Electronic facilities. A bank or trust company may conduct a
  banking business, at automated teller machines, point-of-sale terminals,
  and similar facilities subject to regulations which may  be  promulgated
  by  the  superintendent of financial services. Such facilities shall not
  be deemed to be branches  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  of  the
  provisions of this chapter applicable to branches; provided however that
  notwithstanding   the   foregoing,   for  purposes  of  clause  (ii)  of
  subdivision one of section  one  hundred  five  of  this  chapter,  such
  facilities  shall be deemed to be branches, and such facilities shall be
  subject to the terms and conditions of section one hundred five, and for
  purposes of section twenty-eight-b  of  this  chapter,  such  facilities
  shall be deemed to be branches.


::: 105-b:trust_offices.html
 
    &#167;  105-b.  Trust  offices. 1. A trust company may establish or acquire
  and maintain one or more  trust  offices  anywhere  in  this  state,  or
  outside the state of New York, either in the United States or in foreign
  countries.
    2.  A  trust  company  seeking  to establish or acquire and maintain a
  trust office  shall  submit  a  written  notice  to  the  superintendent
  describing  the  proposed  activities  and such other information as the
  superintendent shall request. The notice  shall  be  accompanied  by  an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter.
    3. The trust office may  commence  operation  thirty  days  after  the
  superintendent  receives such notice, unless the superintendent notifies
  the trust company in writing within such time period that the office may
  not commence  operation  or  that  additional  information  or  time  is
  required for the superintendent to consider such notice.
    4.  The  superintendent  may  deny approval of the trust office if the
  superintendent finds that the maintenance of such office  would  not  be
  consistent  with  the  goals  set  forth  in  the  declaration of policy
  contained in section ten of this chapter.


::: 105:branch_offices_prohibition_against_doing_business_at_unauthorized_places.html
 
    &#167; 105.   Branch   offices;   prohibition  against  doing  business  at
  unauthorized places. 1.  (a)  No  bank  or  trust  company  or  officer,
  director,  agent  or  employee  thereof,  shall transact any part of its
  usual business of banking at any place other than its principal  office,
  except  that  a  bank  or  trust company may open and occupy one or more
  branch offices at any location in the  state,  provided:  (i)  that  the
  requirements  of  section  twenty-nine  of this chapter are met and (ii)
  that, except for the city or village in which its  principal  office  is
  located,  in  no event shall a branch be opened and occupied pursuant to
  this subdivision in a  city  or  village  with  a  population  of  fifty
  thousand  or  less  in  which is already located the principal office of
  another bank, trust company or national banking association, other  than
  a  bank  holding  company,  if  such  bank  holding company is a banking
  institution, or a banking subsidiary of a bank holding company (as  such
  terms   "bank  holding  company",  "banking  institution"  and  "banking
  subsidiary" are  defined  in  section  one  hundred  forty-one  of  this
  chapter)  except  that  the  definition  of  "bank  holding  company" is
  modified to change  the  phrase  "a  banking  institution"  wherever  it
  appears  therein  to  "  two  or  more  banking  institutions"  and  the
  definition of "banking  institution"  is  modified  to  add  a  national
  banking  association,  the  principal  office  of  which  institution is
  located in this state, except, in the case of a conversion  pursuant  to
  the  provisions  of  this  article,  branch offices occupied immediately
  prior thereto or except for the purpose of acquiring by merger, sale  or
  otherwise the business and property of a bank, trust company or national
  banking  association,  whether  in  liquidation or doing business in the
  usual course.
    (b) An office of an affiliated bank at which the customers of  a  bank
  or   trust   company  may  make  deposits,  renew  time  deposits,  make
  withdrawals, close loans, service loans, and receive payments  on  loans
  and  other  obligations shall not be deemed a branch office of such bank
  or trust company. For the purposes of this section, the term "affiliated
  bank" means any bank, as such term is defined in section 3(a)(1) of  the
  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Act  (12  U.S.C.  1813(a)(1)),  that  is  a
  subsidiary of the same bank holding company, as that term is defined  in
  section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841).
    2.  Hereafter  before  any  branch  or  branches  shall  be opened and
  occupied pursuant to subdivision one of this section the  superintendent
  shall have given his written approval as provided in article two of this
  chapter.
    3.  (a) Any bank or trust company may with the written approval of the
  superintendent, open and occupy a branch office or branch offices in one
  or more places located without the state of  New  York,  either  in  the
  United States of America or in foreign countries.
    (b)  If  any  bank  or  trust company has opened and occupied a branch
  office in a foreign country pursuant to the provisions of paragraph  (a)
  of   this   subdivision,   it  may,  unless  otherwise  advised  by  the
  superintendent, open and occupy an additional branch  office  or  branch
  offices  in such country without having to apply for the approval of the
  superintendent, provided that it gives the superintendent notice  of  at
  least  thirty  days  (or  such  shorter  period as the superintendent in
  individual cases may approve) before  opening  and  occupying  any  such
  additional branch office.
    4.  The  term  "village"  as used in this section shall mean either an
  incorporated or an unincorporated village.
    5. (a) A bank or trust company may, if the merger or asset acquisition
  is permitted by law, and if the merger or asset acquisition agreement so
  provides, maintain as a branch office or branch offices or trust  office
  or  trust  offices,  the  place or places of business of any bank, trust
  company,   safe   deposit   company,   national   banking   association,
  out-of-state state bank or out-of-state trust company (as such terms are
  defined  in  section  two  hundred  twenty-two of this chapter), savings
  bank, or savings and loan association, federal savings bank  or  federal
  savings and loan association which it has received into itself by merger
  or  by  acquisition of assets thereof pursuant to the provisions of this
  chapter and, if the merger or acquisition  agreement  so  provides,  may
  maintain,  as  its  principal  office  rather  than as a branch or trust
  office, the principal office of such banking institution with  which  it
  has  merged  or  from  which  it  has  acquired  assets (so long as such
  principal office is located in this state), in which  event  the  former
  principal office of the receiving or acquiring bank or trust company may
  be  maintained  as  a  branch  office.  A  state  bank  or trust company
  resulting from the conversion of a national banking association may,  if
  the  conversion  agreement  so  provides, maintain as a branch office or
  branch offices or trust office or trust offices the place or  places  of
  business   of   the  national  banking  association.  As  used  in  this
  subdivision, the term "place or places of business"  shall  include  any
  branch  office  or  trust  office  of  the  banking institution that was
  converted, merged or the assets of which were acquired  which  has  been
  approved  pursuant  to this chapter or federal law or the law of another
  state, as the case may be, even if such branch office or trust office is
  not  in  operation  at  the  time  said  merger,  asset  acquisition  or
  conversion becomes effective.
    (b)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph (a) of this
  subdivision, any public accommodation office of a  merging  or  acquired
  banking organization or association, including any such office which has
  been approved pursuant to section one hundred ninety-one of this chapter
  but  which  is  not  in operation at the time said merger or acquisition
  becomes effective, may be maintained by the receiving or acquiring  bank
  or trust company as a public accommodation office only.


::: 106:deposits_by_banks_and_trust_companies_with_other_banking_corporations_and_private_bankers_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 106.  Deposits  by  banks  and  trust  companies  with other banking
  corporations and private bankers; restrictions.   1. No  bank  or  trust
  company  shall  deposit  any  of  its  funds  with  any other foreign or
  domestic banking corporation or private banker in  an  amount  exceeding
  one  hundred per centum of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided
  profits of  such  bank  or  trust  company  unless  such  other  banking
  corporation or private banker has been approved by the superintendent as
  a  depositary  for the purpose of this section, in which case the amount
  so deposited may equal but shall not  exceed  such  per  centum  of  the
  capital  stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such bank or trust
  company as the superintendent shall approve.
    2. The restrictions contained in  this  section  shall  not  apply  to
  deposits by any bank or trust company with a federal reserve bank.


::: 107-a:security_for_public_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 107-a. Security for public deposits. 1. As used in this section, the
  following terms shall have the following meanings:
    (a)  "Public  depositary".  A bank, trust company or other depositary,
  whether state or federally chartered,  authorized  to  accept  and  hold
  deposits of public funds under the laws of this state.
    (b) "Public funds". Funds of a political subdivision.
    (c)   "Political   subdivision".  Any  municipal  corporation,  school
  district,  board   of   cooperative   educational   services,   district
  corporation,  special  improvement district governed by a separate board
  of commissioners or a public library.
    (d) "Public deposits". Deposits of public funds in a public depositary
  which are available for all  uses  generally  permitted  by  the  public
  depositary  to  the  depositing  political  subdivision for actually and
  finally collected funds under the public depositary's account  agreement
  or policies.
    2.  Whenever  a  political  subdivision  is required by any general or
  special law to obtain a pledge of assets or other security from a public
  depositary for its public deposits and such  political  subdivision  has
  entered into a written agreement with such public depositary relating to
  such public deposits and has provided written notice in a form specified
  by  such  written  agreement  to  the  public  depositary of such public
  deposits, the public depositary shall comply with the provisions of such
  law at the time it  accepts  any  public  deposits  from  the  political
  subdivision;  provided,  however,  that  where the public depositary and
  political subdivision have agreed in writing as to the maximum amount of
  security which such depositary shall provide, and the terms,  conditions
  and  timing  of  the  provisions  of  security pursuant thereto, and the
  depositary has at all times complied with such agreement,  it  shall  be
  deemed  to  have complied with the provisions of such law for so long as
  it shall comply with such agreement.


::: 107:reserves_against_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 107.  Reserves  against  deposits.  1.  Every bank and trust company
  shall maintain total reserves against its demand and  time  deposits  in
  such  ratios  as  the  superintendent  of  financial  services  shall by
  regulation impose. If the principal office or any branch of such bank or
  trust company is located in a special requirement area, as designated in
  or pursuant to subdivision two  of  this  section  said  bank  or  trust
  company  shall maintain such additional reserves as may be prescribed by
  the superintendent of financial services.
    2. The cities of Albany and Buffalo  and  the  boroughs  of  Brooklyn,
  Manhattan  and  The  Bronx  are hereby designated as special requirement
  areas. The superintendent of financial services may at any time  add  to
  the  number  of  cities  or  boroughs  designated as special requirement
  areas, or may terminate the designation of any city or borough as such.
    3. Any part of total reserves may be deposited, subject to call,  with
  a  federal  reserve  bank  in  the  district in which such bank or trust
  company is located, or with reserve depositaries, and  the  reserves  on
  hand  not  so deposited shall consist of any form of currency authorized
  by the laws of the United States. Any bank or trust company which is  or
  shall  become a member of the federal reserve system shall maintain such
  reserves with a federal reserve bank as are required by or  pursuant  to
  the federal reserve act and so long as it complies with the requirements
  of  such  federal reserve act with reference to reserves shall be exempt
  from the preceding provisions of this section.
    4. If any bank or trust company  shall  fail  to  maintain  its  total
  reserves  in  the  manner  prescribed and authorized by this section, it
  shall be liable to, and shall pay any assessment or  assessments  levied
  by  the superintendent pursuant to the provisions of article two of this
  chapter.


::: 108-a:acceptance_of_united_states_currency.html
 
    &#167; 108-a.  Acceptance  of  United  States  currency.  No  bank or trust
  company shall impose a fee, commission or service charge  for  accepting
  for  deposit  or  exchanging for other United States currency any United
  States currency provided that any coins are properly rolled and have the
  customer's account number for that bank or trust  company  displayed  on
  the  coin roll, provided further that no more than ten rolls of coins in
  any denomination are presented for deposit or exchange at any one time.


::: 108:rates_of_interest_installment_obligations_personal_loan_departments.html
 
    &#167; 108.  Rates  of  interest;  installment  obligations;  personal loan
  departments. 1. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no bank or
  trust company shall take, receive, reserve or  charge  on  any  loan  or
  discount  made,  or upon any note, bill of exchange or other evidence of
  debt, negotiable or otherwise, interest, as computed  pursuant  to  this
  subdivision,  at  a  rate  greater  than  the  rate  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services pursuant to section  fourteen-a  of
  this  chapter, or, if no rate has been so prescribed, six per centum per
  annum, or two dollars if the interest so  computed  is  less  than  that
  amount.  Such  interest  may be taken in advance, reckoning the days for
  which the note, bill or evidence of debt has to run. If interest  is  so
  taken  in  advance  and  the  maturity  of  the  debt is accelerated and
  judgment is obtained, or the debt is otherwise paid prior to its  normal
  date  of maturity, the bank or trust company shall refund to the obligor
  or his legal representative, as the case may be, the  unearned  interest
  previously  deducted  and the unused portion of any premiums charged for
  insuring the obligor under a group credit insurance policy, such  refund
  to  be  calculated  in accordance with the method described in paragraph
  (e) of subdivision four of this section. A reasonable charge by  a  bank
  or  trust  company  for  the collection of a bona fide bill of exchange,
  note or other evidence of debt payable at a place other than  the  place
  where  purchased, discounted or sold, in addition to the interest, shall
  not be considered interest for the purpose of  any  law  regulating  the
  maximum rate of interest which may be charged, taken or received.
    Anything    contained    in   this   subdivision   to   the   contrary
  notwithstanding, the charging of interest  or  discount  on  a  loan  or
  discount  made  outside  this state at a rate allowed by the laws of the
  jurisdiction where such loan is made, or the acquisition by  a  bank  or
  trust  company  of a part interest or the entire interest in any loan or
  discount heretofore or hereafter made by a bank or trust company or  any
  other banking institution, shall not be a violation of this section.
    2.  Any  bank  or trust company may purchase or otherwise acquire from
  the payee, owner or holder thereof any obligation in writing to  pay  in
  installments  all  or  part of the price of personal property or that of
  the performance of services, whether that  obligation  be  a  negotiable
  promissory  note  or other evidence of debt, or any accounts receivable,
  whether or not they are obligations in writing, or any lease of personal
  property, and may lease personal property acquired by it, doing  so  for
  such  price  or  rentals or other consideration and upon such additional
  terms and conditions as may be mutually agreeable.
    3. Upon advances of money, repayable on demand, to an amount not  less
  than  five thousand dollars, made upon documents of title within article
  seven of the uniform commercial code or  negotiable  instruments  within
  article three or article eight of the uniform commercial code pledged as
  collateral  security  for  such repayment, any bank or trust company may
  receive or contract to receive and collect as  compensation  for  making
  such  advances  any  sum which may be agreed upon by the parties to such
  transaction.
    4. (a) A bank or trust company may operate a personal loan  department
  at  all  or  at  any one or more of its authorized places of business in
  accordance with the requirements of this  subdivision.  The  records  of
  such  department  shall  be  kept in such form as the superintendent may
  from time to time prescribe. The superintendent may, after giving notice
  of the contemplated action and reasonable opportunity to be heard, order
  that the operation of such department be discontinued if he  shall  find
  that  the bank or trust company has failed to conform to any requirement
  of this subdivision. The superintendent may forthwith, and for a  period
  not  to exceed thirty days pending further investigation, order that the
  operation of any such department be temporarily discontinued if he shall
  have  reasonable  cause  to  believe  that  the  requirements  of   this
  subdivision  are  not having compliance. Such order of discontinuance or
  temporary  discontinuance  may  apply  to  one or more of the authorized
  places of business of a bank or trust company.  The  superintendent  may
  terminate  or  modify  such  orders  if  he shall be satisfied that such
  department will be operated in accordance with the requirements of  this
  subdivision.   No   order   of  discontinuance  or  temporary  order  of
  discontinuance shall impair or affect the obligation of any  preexisting
  lawful loan or advance from a bank or trust company to any borrower.
    (b)  A bank or trust company which operates a personal loan department
  may make loans and charge interest thereon, which may be  calculated  on
  the  actual  unpaid  principal  balances of the loan or in the case of a
  loan commitment from the date of each advance thereunder for the  actual
  time  outstanding, according to a generally accepted actuarial method at
  a fixed or variable rate  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
  evidence  of  the  indebtedness,  or taken in advance, computed from the
  date of the loan, or in the case of a loan commitment from the  date  of
  each  advance  thereunder,  to  the date of the last installment payable
  thereunder, at the rate or rates agreed to by the bank or trust  company
  and the borrower, with respect to any loan which is repayable at regular
  periodic  intervals  of  not  more than one month over a period from the
  date of the loan not exceeding (i)  thirty-seven  months,  if  the  face
  amount  of the loan is for not more than twelve hundred dollars, or (ii)
  any number of months agreed to by the bank  or  trust  company  and  the
  borrower,  (A)  if  the  face amount of the loan is for more than twelve
  hundred dollars, (B) if  the  loan  is  for  more  than  twelve  hundred
  dollars,  and is made for a commercial or business use or purpose or for
  investment in or purchase of an unincorporated  business  or  commercial
  enterprise,  (C)  if the loan or loan commitment is made for educational
  purposes as specified in subdivision five-b of this section, or  (D)  if
  the  loan  or  advance  of  credit  is made for the purpose of financing
  alterations, repairs and improvements upon or in connection with, or  as
  the  superintendent  may authorize the equipping of existing structures,
  and the building of new structures, upon urban, suburban, or rural  real
  property  (including  the  restoration,  rehabilitation,  rebuilding and
  replacement of such improvements which have been damaged or destroyed by
  earthquake, conflagration, tornado, hurricane, cyclone, flood  or  other
  catastrophe),  by the owners thereof or by lessees of such real property
  under a lease expiring not less than six months after  the  maturity  of
  the  loan  or  advance  of credit or by lessees under proprietary leases
  from  corporations  or  partnerships  formed  for  the  purpose  of  the
  cooperative  ownership  of  real  estate.  The  total  unpaid  principal
  balances of any one or more loans made by such bank or trust company  to
  the  borrower  pursuant  to  this  subdivision  shall  be  determined by
  agreement between such bank or trust company and the  borrower.  If  the
  loan  is made for a period of one year or more, provision may be made in
  the note, instrument or other evidence of  debt,  for  the  omission  of
  payments  during  not  more  than  any  three  specified  months  in any
  twelve-month period, but the  maximum  period  of  thirty-seven  months,
  shall not be exceeded. On any loan with a variable rate of interest made
  pursuant  to  this  paragraph,  the  rate shall be determined at regular
  intervals as set forth in the evidence of indebtedness and in accordance
  with such regulations as the superintendent of financial services  shall
  prescribe but said rate shall not vary more often than once in any three
  month period and shall be based on a published index that is (a) readily
  available,  (b)  independently verifiable, (c) beyond the control of the
  bank or trust company and (d) approved by the superintendent.
    The superintendent of  financial  services  shall  adopt  regulations,
  including  but  not  limited  to:  (a)  providing  for disclosure to the
  borrower by the bank or trust company of the circumstances  under  which
  the rate may increase, any limitations on the increase, the effect of an
  increase  and  an example of the payment terms that would result from an
  increase; (b) providing for disclosure to the borrower by  the  bank  or
  trust  company  of  a  history  of  the fluctuations of the index over a
  reasonable period of time; and (c) providing for notice to the  borrower
  from  the  bank or trust company prior to any rate increase or change in
  the terms of payment.
    (c) The rate of interest  authorized  by  this  subdivision  shall  be
  inclusive  of all charges incident to investigating and making any loan.
  No fee, commission, expense, or  other  charge  whatsoever  in  addition
  thereto  shall  be  taken, received, reserved, or contracted for, except
  (i) the fees payable to the appropriate public officer  to  perfect  any
  lien or other security interest taken to secure the loan or the premium,
  not  in  excess of such filing fee, payable for any insurance in lieu of
  such filing; (ii) in  case  of  default,  and  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of the instrument evidencing the obligation, either a fine in
  an  amount  not to exceed five cents per dollar on any installment which
  has become due and remained unpaid for a period in excess of  ten  days,
  but  no  such  fine shall exceed five dollars and only one fine shall be
  collected on any such installment regardless of the period during  which
  it remains in default, and provided further that should the aggregate of
  such  fines  collected in connection with any loan exceed two per centum
  of such loan, or in any event twenty-five dollars,  the  bank  or  trust
  company shall refund such excess to the borrower within sixty days after
  the  loan  is  paid  in  full,  or,  subject to an allowance of unearned
  interest attributable to the amount in default, interest on each  amount
  past  due  at  a  rate  not  in  excess  of the rate provided for in the
  instrument evidencing the obligation;  (iii)  the  actual  expenditures,
  including  reasonable  attorney's  fees for necessary court process; and
  (iv) in case the bank or trust company insures a borrower under a credit
  unemployment insurance policy, group life insurance policy, group health
  insurance policy, group accident insurance policy, or group  health  and
  accident  insurance  policy,  or requires insurance on personal property
  securing any such  loan,  an  amount  not  in  excess  of  the  premiums
  chargeable  in accordance with rate schedules then in effect and on file
  with the superintendent of financial services for such insurance by  the
  insurer.  No bank or trust company shall require a borrower to place any
  sum on deposit,  or  to  make  deposits  in  lieu  of  regular  periodic
  installment payments, or to do or refrain from doing any other act which
  would  entail  additional expense or sacrifice, as a condition precedent
  to granting a loan under the authority of  this  subdivision  except  as
  provided  in  subdivision  five-b  of  this section. Notwithstanding the
  provisions of this paragraph no refund of excess fines shall be required
  if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (d) In each note, instrument or other evidence  of  debt  given  by  a
  borrower  to  evidence a loan under this subdivision, where such loan is
  not subject to the provisions of the act of congress entitled "Truth  in
  Lending Act" and the regulations thereunder, as such act and regulations
  may  from  time  to  time  be  amended,  the rate of charge (stating any
  minimum as permitted by  this  subdivision  four),  shall  be  expressed
  either  in accordance with the method prescribed by such act of congress
  or: (i) as a rate in dollars per annum discount per one hundred  dollars
  face  amount of loan, or (ii) as the rate or rates agreed to by the bank
  or trust company and the borrower.
    (e) A borrower may prepay the loan in full or, with the consent of the
  bank or trust company, may  refinance  the  loan.  If  the  interest  is
  calculated   on   the  actuarial  basis,  or  if  the  evidence  of  the
  indebtedness provides that the rate of interest may vary  from  time  to
  time,  a  borrower  may  prepay the loan in full without penalty. If the
  interest was taken in advance,  in  the  event  of  such  prepayment  or
  refinancing,  the  bank  or trust company shall refund: (1) the unearned
  portion of the interest to the borrower  the  amount  of  which  portion
  shall  be determined according to a generally accepted actuarial method;
  provided, however, that if the amount of  interest  previously  deducted
  (i)  was  less  than  ten  dollars, no refund shall be required; or (ii)
  exceeded the sum of ten dollars and the earned  interest  is  less  than
  that  amount,  the  bank  or trust company may retain such an additional
  amount as will bring the earned interest to the sum of ten  dollars  and
  refund  the  remainder,  and  provided  further, that unless the loan is
  refinanced, no refund shall be required if it amounts to less  than  one
  dollar;  and  (2)  if a charge was made to the borrower for premiums for
  insuring the borrower under  a  credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,
  group  life insurance policy, or under a group health, group accident or
  group health and accident insurance policy, the excess of the charge  to
  the  borrower  therefor over the premiums paid or payable by the bank or
  trust company, if such premiums were paid or  payable  by  the  bank  or
  trust  company  periodically,  or  the refund for such insurance premium
  received or receivable by the bank or trust company, if such premium was
  paid or payable in a lump sum by the bank  or  trust  company,  provided
  that  no  such  refund  shall be required if it amounts to less than one
  dollar. In the event (i) the maturity of the loan is accelerated due  to
  the  default  of  the borrower or otherwise and judgment is obtained, or
  (ii) repayment is made  pursuant  to  any  such  insurance  policy,  the
  borrower  or  his  legal  representative,  as  the case may be, shall be
  entitled to the same refund as if the loan had been prepaid in  full  on
  the date of acceleration or repayment.
    (f)  A  bank  or  trust company may, upon agreement with the borrower,
  extend the scheduled due date or defer the scheduled payment of  all  or
  any  part of any installment or installments payable under the loan. The
  agreement for such extension or deferment must be in writing and  signed
  by  the  borrower. The bank or trust company may charge and contract for
  the payment of an extension or  deferral  charge  by  the  borrower  and
  collect and receive the same, at the rate or rates agreed to by the bank
  or  trust  company and the borrower, on the amount of the installment or
  installments, or part thereof, extended or deferred for  the  period  of
  extension  or deferral. Such period shall not exceed the period from the
  date when such extended or deferred installment or installments, or part
  thereof, would have been payable in the absence  of  such  extension  or
  deferral,  to  the  date  when such installment or installments, or part
  thereof, are made payable under the agreement of extension or deferment;
  except that a minimum charge of one dollar for the period  of  extension
  or  deferral  may  be  made  in any case where the extension or deferral
  charge, when computed at such rate, amounts to  less  than  one  dollar.
  Such  agreement  may also provide for the payment by the borrower of the
  additional cost to the bank or trust company of premiums for  continuing
  in  force,  until  the  end of such period of extension or deferral, any
  insurance coverages provided in connection with the loan subject to  the
  other provisions of this subdivision.
    (g)  If  the  borrower  is  obligated  in  connection with the loan to
  maintain  insurance  on  a  motor  vehicle  securing  the  loan  and  if
  subsequent  to the making of the loan the borrower fails to maintain the
  insurance, the bank or trust company may make advances  to  procure  the
  equivalent  limits of insurance for either the interests of the borrower
  and the bank or trust company or of either of them, and  any  amount  so
  advanced  may be the subject of an interest charge from the date of such
  advance  as  though such amount was part of the unpaid principal balance
  of the loan.  Each amount so advanced shall be secured by  the  personal
  property  if so provided in the security agreement covering the personal
  property and if the bank or  trust  company  notifies  the  borrower  in
  writing  of the advance of such amount and of his or her option to repay
  such amount in any one of the following ways:
    (1) Full payment within ten days from the date of  giving  or  mailing
  the notice;
    (2)  Full  amortization  during  the  term  of  the  insurance  or the
  remaining term of the loan, at the option of the bank or trust company;
    (3) If offered by the bank  or  trust  company,  as  a  final  balloon
  payment payable one month after the last scheduled payment in connection
  with the loan;
    (4)  If  offered by the bank or trust company, full amortization after
  the term of the loan, to be payable in instalments which do  not  exceed
  the average instalment payable in connection with the loan; or
    (5)  If  offered  by the bank or trust company, any other amortization
  plan.
    If the borrower neither pays  in  full  the  amount  so  advanced  nor
  notifies  the  bank  or  trust  company  in writing of his or her choice
  regarding amortization options before the expiration of  ten  days  from
  the  date  of  giving  or  mailing  of  the  notice by the bank or trust
  company, the bank or trust company shall amortize the amount so advanced
  pursuant to subparagraph two of this paragraph.
    5. (a) A  bank  or  trust  company  which  operates  a  personal  loan
  department  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of subdivision four hereof may
  establish credits under written agreements with borrowers,  pursuant  to
  which  one or more loans or advances to or for the account of a borrower
  may be made from time to time, by means of honoring one or  more  checks
  or  other  written,  electronic  or telephonic orders or requests of the
  borrower and may charge interest on such loans and advances at the  rate
  permitted  by paragraph (b) of this subdivision, provided such loans and
  advances  comply  with  the  provisions  of   this   subdivision.   This
  subdivision  does  not  authorize  any bank or trust company to make any
  loan or advance in connection with the purchase or  lease  of  goods  or
  services  by  means  of a credit card as defined in section five hundred
  eleven of the general  business  law,  except  for  a  loan  or  advance
  resulting  from  the use of a card which may be used to access a deposit
  account and line of credit associated with that account. The records  of
  such loans and advances shall be kept in such form as the superintendent
  may from time to time prescribe.
    (b)  Such  agreement  may provide for interest on the unpaid aggregate
  principal  amount  of  such  loans  and  advances  from  time  to   time
  outstanding  at the rate or rates agreed to by the bank or trust company
  and the borrower, as computed pursuant to this  section,  including,  in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the agreement, rates that may vary
  from time to time reckoned  on  each  loan  or  advance  from  the  date
  thereof,  calculated  on  any  of the following bases: (i) on the unpaid
  principal  amount  of  such  loans  and  advances  from  time  to   time
  outstanding,  or  (ii)  for each month on an average balance outstanding
  determined by dividing  by  two  the  sum  of  the  balances  of  unpaid
  principal  of  such  loans  and advances outstanding on two dates during
  such month, as specified in such agreement; the  first  of  which  dates
  being  not  later  than  the  fifteenth day of such month and the second
  being not earlier than the sixteenth day of such month and not less than
  ten nor more than twenty days after the first date, or  (iii)  for  each
  month on a fixed amount selected from a schedule, which fixed amount may
  exceed the average daily balance under (i) above, or the average balance
  if  determined under (ii) above, by a differential of not more than five
  dollars, provided the same fixed  amount  is  also  used  for  computing
  interest  for any month for which such balance exceeds said fixed amount
  by any amount up to at least the same differential. For purposes of this
  subdivision, a month may but need not be a calendar month, and a bank or
  trust company computing interest on a daily basis may  charge  for  each
  day  one  thirtieth  of  the  monthly interest rate. No amendment to any
  agreement shall take effect  unless  at  least  30  days  prior  to  the
  effective  date  of  such  amendment,  imposition or increase, a written
  notice has been mailed or delivered to the  borrower  that  clearly  and
  conspicuously  describes  such amendment, imposition or increase and the
  indebtedness to which it applies and if the amendment has the effect  of
  increasing  the  rate of interest, either (a) the notice states that the
  incurrence by the borrower or another person authorized by  him  of  any
  further indebtedness under the plan to which the agreement relates on or
  after  the  effective  date of such change specified in the notice shall
  constitute acceptance of such change, and either the borrower agrees  in
  writing  to  such change or the borrower or another person authorized by
  him incurs such further indebtedness on or after the effective  date  of
  the  change stated in the notice, or (b) the notice advises the borrower
  that he has thirty days from the earlier of the mailing or  delivery  of
  the  notice  to advise the bank or trust company in writing that he does
  not accept such amendment, provided that such notice contains an address
  to which the borrower may send notice of his election not to accept  the
  amendment and also provided that the notice specifies that the amendment
  will  take  effect absent receipt of the borrower's written objection to
  the amendment. Any borrower who has received a notice pursuant to clause
  (a) who does not agree in  writing  to  the  amendment  and  no  further
  indebtedness  is incurred under the plan to which the agreement relates,
  and any borrower who gives a timely  notice,  pursuant  to  clause  (b),
  electing  not  to  accept  the  amendment  shall be permitted to pay his
  outstanding indebtedness in accordance with the terms of  the  agreement
  but  the  bank  or  trust  company  may  terminate  the amount of credit
  available to the borrower and may require the  borrower  to  return  all
  credit cards and checks issued in connection with the agreement. If such
  a  borrower  subsequently  obtains  credit under the agreement, such use
  shall constitute acceptance of the change of terms and shall  be  deemed
  to  have  been accepted and shall become effective as to the borrower as
  of the date such change would have become effective but for  the  giving
  of notice by the borrower. If notice is given pursuant to clause (b) and
  the  borrower  does  not timely object in writing to the amendment, such
  amendment shall become effective without  action  on  the  part  of  the
  borrower; provided that in no event shall any such amendment or increase
  take effect with respect to (i) the unpaid aggregate principal amount of
  loans or advances representing indebtedness outstanding prior to January
  1,  1981  and  (ii)  the  unpaid  aggregate principal amount of loans or
  advances representing indebtedness incurred, under  or  pursuant  to  an
  agreement  in  effect  on December 1, 1980, between January 1, 1981, and
  the effective date of such amendment or increase specified in the  first
  notice   mailed  or  delivered  pursuant  to  clause  (a).  Indebtedness
  outstanding prior to January 1, 1981, for purpose of  clause  (i)  above
  and  indebtedness outstanding prior to the effective date of an increase
  for purposes of clause (ii) above shall be determined on  the  basis  of
  crediting  payments  and other credits first to that portion of any such
  indebtedness representing interest charges, insurance premiums,  service
  charges  and  fines  and then to that portion representing the principal
  amount of loans or advances in the order in which made.  The  provisions
  of this paragraph permitting an increase in a rate of interest shall not
  apply  in the case of an agreement which expressly prohibits changing of
  interest rates or which provides limitations  on  changing  of  interest
  rates   which  are  more  restrictive  than  the  requirements  of  this
  paragraph. An amendment to an agreement deleting a  provision  that  the
  rate  of  interest  may  vary from time to time may not become effective
  within one year from the later of the effective date of the agreement or
  the effective date of an amendment to an  agreement  adding  a  variable
  rate provision. On any loans or advances with rates of interest that may
  vary  from  time  to time made pursuant to this paragraph, such variable
  rates of interest shall be determined at regular intervals as set  forth
  in  the  agreement  and  in  accordance  with  such  regulations  as the
  superintendent of financial services shall prescribe but said rate shall
  not vary more often than once in any three month  period  and  shall  be
  based   on  a  published  index  that  is  (a)  readily  available,  (b)
  independently verifiable, (c) beyond the control of the  bank  or  trust
  company and (d) approved by the superintendent, (e) such loan rate shall
  be  based  on  the  index  values,  or  the  index numbers plus or minus
  additional percentage points provided, however, that variations  in  the
  rate  must correspond directly to the movements of the index values plus
  or  minus  additional  percentage  points  only.  Once  such   rate   is
  established  no  lending institution may add any factors to increase the
  rate other than variations in the established index  without  the  prior
  approval  of  the  superintendent of financial services. For purposes of
  this paragraph, an adjustment in the rate of interest as  a  consequence
  of  movement  in the selected index shall not constitute an amendment to
  that agreement. A reduction in the grace period for the assessment of  a
  fee  on  any  installment  not  paid  when  due,  shall be considered an
  amendment to an agreement as set forth in this paragraph.
    The superintendent of financial services shall adopt regulations  with
  respect  to  agreements  that  provide  for a variable rate of interest,
  including but not limited  to:  (a)  providing  for  disclosure  to  the
  borrower  by  the bank or trust company of the circumstances under which
  the rate may increase, any limitations on the increase, the effect of an
  increase and an example of the payment terms that would result  from  an
  increase;  (b)  providing  for disclosure to the borrower by the bank or
  trust company of a history of the  fluctuations  of  the  index  over  a
  reasonable  period of time; and (c) providing for notice to the borrower
  from the bank or trust company prior to any rate increase or  change  in
  the  terms  of  payment.  The  regulations  shall  allow a bank or trust
  company after choosing an approved  index  to  choose  a  spread  and  a
  minimum and maximum rate of interest at its discretion.
    A  written  agreement,  whether  it  provides  for a fixed or variable
  interest rate, may provide for  an  introductory  rate  of  interest  at
  either  a  fixed  or  a  variable  rate, provided that the terms of such
  introductory rate, including, if  applicable,  the  date  on  which  the
  introductory  rate  shall terminate, are disclosed to the borrower. Such
  disclosure shall be contained on an  application  form  or  pre-approved
  written solicitation as specified pursuant to subdivisions one and one-a
  of  section five hundred twenty of the general business law. A change in
  the interest rate upon expiration of an introductory rate shall  not  be
  considered  a  variable  rate or a change in terms. The interest rate in
  effect after expiration of an introductory rate may apply to all amounts
  due under the agreement regardless of when incurred  and  disclosure  of
  the same shall be provided to the borrower in the written agreement.
    Any interest charge, whether assessed by a fixed or variable rate, may
  be  reduced  on  such  terms as the bank or trust company may determine,
  provided that the terms of such reduction, including, if applicable, the
  date on which  the  reduction  will  terminate,  are  disclosed  to  the
  borrower  on  the  written notice announcing the reduction, prior to the
  effective date of the reduction. A new method of determining an interest
  charge is a reduction in the interest charge if  the  charge  determined
  under the new method never exceeds the charge under the original method.
  The  original  interest  charge  or  original  method of determining the
  interest charge may be applied after the reduction ends  to  the  entire
  outstanding  indebtedness,  including  any  indebtedness incurred when a
  reduced interest charge applied and disclosure  of  the  same  shall  be
  provided to the borrower in the written notice announcing the reduction.
  A  reduction  to  an  interest  charge,  including the resumption of the
  original interest charge or  the  original  method  of  determining  the
  interest  charge,  shall not be considered an amendment of the agreement
  for purposes of this paragraph.
    (c) The aggregate unpaid  principal  amount  of  all  such  loans  and
  advances  to  a  borrower made pursuant to this subdivision by a bank or
  trust company at  any  one  time  outstanding  shall  be  determined  by
  agreement  between such bank or trust company and the borrower except to
  the extent that such loans or advances are made pursuant  to  a  written
  agreement  providing for establishing credits for a primarily commercial
  or business use or purpose or  for  investment  in  or  purchase  of  an
  interest in an unincorporated business or commercial enterprise.
    (d)  The  aggregate  unpaid principal amount of all loans and advances
  outstanding at any time pursuant to this subdivision shall be  repayable
  at  regular  periodic  intervals of not more than one month and for such
  term as agreed upon by such bank or  trust  company  and  the  borrower;
  provided,  however,  that  nothing herein shall prohibit a bank or trust
  company from providing in any agreement for the omission of payments for
  three consecutive specified months during any consecutive  twelve  month
  period.  The  initial installment of any loan or advance may be deferred
  for a period of not more than sixty-five days from the date of such loan
  or advance; provided, however, that the installments payable during  any
  such  period on any prior loans or advances shall not be affected by any
  such deferment. Provided, however,  that  an  agreement  may  require  a
  minimum installment as agreed upon by the parties.
    The  borrower  may  at  any time prepay the amount owing in part or in
  full, with interest to the date of prepayment.
    Notwithstanding the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  paragraph,  each
  installment  or  other  amount paid by the borrower to the bank or trust
  company may be applied to interest, insurance premiums, service charges,
  fines and principal in the order named, or in any  such  manner  as  the
  agreement  may  provide. The term "installment" may be deemed to include
  or exclude amounts  to  be  applied  to  interest,  insurance  premiums,
  service charges and fines.
    (e)  The  fees  and charges authorized by this paragraph and paragraph
  (b) of this subdivision  shall  be  inclusive  of  all  charges  to  the
  borrower  incident to investigating and making any such loan or advance.
  No fee, commission, expense, or other charge to the borrower  whatsoever
  shall  be  taken,  received,  reserved,  or  contracted  for,  except as
  provided in  this  subdivision.  In  addition  to  the  interest  charge
  permitted  under  paragraph  (b)  of this subdivision, the bank or trust
  company may charge, receive and collect any one or more of the fees  and
  charges  described  in  this  paragraph,  provided  that any such fee or
  charge is set forth in the written agreement with the borrower. The bank
  or trust company may contract with the borrower for the payment  by  the
  borrower  of:  (i)  a service charge either as a percentage or an amount
  upon each such check or other written, electronic or telephonic order or
  request which is approved; (ii) a charge in an amount or percentage  for
  each  check  or other written, electronic or telephonic order or request
  to obtain money from a credit line that cannot  be  approved  since  the
  borrower  is  in  violation  of the terms of the agreement or payment of
  such order or request would cause borrower to be  in  violation  of  the
  terms  of  the  agreement;  (iii) a fee for any installment which is not
  paid on or before the date on which it is due. A bank or  trust  company
  that  imposes the charge described in this subparagraph without allowing
  a grace period of at least ten days must credit any cash payment made by
  a borrower to a teller at a branch where deposits are  accepted  by  the
  bank  or  trust  company, as of the date of receipt of the payment; (iv)
  the  actual  expenditures,  including  reasonable  attorneys'  fees  for
  necessary court process; (v) in case the bank or trust company insures a
  borrower  in accordance with applicable insurance law, including but not
  limited to under a credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,  group  life
  insurance   policy,   group  health  insurance  policy,  group  accident
  insurance policy, or group health  and  accident  insurance  policy,  an
  amount  for  each  month  which,  notwithstanding  any other law, may be
  computed on the amount of  the  borrower's  entire  unpaid  indebtedness
  under  this  subdivision except in the case of a loan or loan commitment
  made under this subdivision for educational  purposes  as  specified  in
  subdivision  five-b  of  this  section, and then on an amount no greater
  than the unpaid balance of the borrower's scheduled  periodic  payments,
  whether  due or not due, upon the loan or loan commitment, at a rate not
  in excess of the premiums chargeable for such month in  accordance  with
  rate  schedules  then  in  effect and on file with the superintendent of
  financial services for such insurance by the insurer; (vi) if  loans  or
  advances  may  be obtained by use of a credit card issued by the bank or
  trust company to the borrower, an  annual  fee  for  membership  in  the
  credit card plan. If the borrower has requested the issuance of a credit
  card,  the  fee  for  the first year may be charged by the bank or trust
  company at any time. The bank or trust company shall in each  subsequent
  year in which an annual fee is payable, send the borrower in or with the
  statement for the monthly billing period before that in which the fee is
  to  be  billed,  a notice that the annual fee will be billed in the next
  monthly statement.  A borrower who is not  delinquent  or  otherwise  in
  breach of any term of the agreement with the bank or trust company shall
  have  the  right  during  the  first  six months after the annual fee is
  billed to notify the bank or trust company in writing, at its address on
  the credit agreement, to terminate the borrower's account and request  a
  refund  of  the  unused  portion of the annual fee previously paid. Upon
  receipt of the termination notice and refund request from such borrower,
  the bank or trust company shall refund to the borrower  the  unused  pro
  rata  share  of  any  annual fee previously paid as of the first billing
  statement date after receipt of the termination  notice;  and  (vii)  an
  overlimit  charge  which  may  be  imposed whenever the specified credit
  limit is exceeded but not more than once in a monthly billing cycle.  If
  the  overlimit  charge is imposed, the credit limit must be disclosed on
  the monthly billing statement; and (viii) a returned payment charge,  in
  the  amount  set  forth in section 5-328 of the general obligations law,
  for any check or other  method  of  payment  that  is  returned  unpaid,
  excluding  payment  made by automated teller machine or other electronic
  media; (ix) a charge for replacement of lost  or  stolen  credit  cards,
  which  charge shall be applied only where a borrower has suffered a lost
  or stolen credit card after two replacements thereof; (x) a  charge  for
  additional  credit  cards  for the borrower's account; and (xi) a charge
  for copies of sales slips, cash advance slips,  monthly  statements  and
  other  documents  when  such copies are not required by federal or state
  law governing billing error disputes.
    The  fees  and  charges  set  forth  in  this  paragraph  shall not be
  considered in applying sections 190.40 and 190.42 of the penal law.  For
  purposes  of  12 U.S.C. &#167;&#167;  85, 1831d, 1463(g) and 1785(g), the fees and
  charges permitted under this paragraph are interest under New York  law,
  and  all  terms, conditions, and other provisions of a written agreement
  between a bank or  trust  company  and  a  borrower,  including  without
  limitation,  fees  and  charges,  provisions  related  to  the method of
  determining the outstanding balance  on  which  an  interest  charge  is
  imposed  and  circumstances  in which an interest charge may be avoided,
  are material to the determination of the interest rate  under  New  York
  law.
    (f)  No bank or trust company shall require a borrower to keep any sum
  on deposit, or to make deposits in lieu of regular periodic  installment
  payments,  or  to  do  or  refrain  from doing any other act which would
  entail additional expense or sacrifice, as a condition precedent to  the
  entering  into  of  the agreement or granting of a loan or advance under
  the authority of this subdivision, except  as  provided  in  subdivision
  five-b  of this section, provided, however, that nothing herein shall be
  construed to prohibit a borrower  from  agreeing  that  such  loans  and
  advances  may  be  disbursed by crediting a demand deposit account to be
  opened or maintained by the borrower on the same terms  as  are  offered
  generally by the bank or trust company to all or any class or classes of
  demand  deposit  customers,  and  provided further, that a bank or trust
  company may require a  pledge  to  such  bank  or  trust  company  of  a
  specifically identified interest-bearing deposit account at such bank or
  trust  company  as  collateral  security for a loan made by such bank or
  trust company under the authority of this subdivision.
    5-a. A bank or trust company may make loans  secured  by  mobile  home
  chattel  paper  evidencing a monetary obligation incurred to finance the
  purchase of a mobile home located at the time of such purchase, or to be
  located within ninety days, at a semipermanent site within the state  or
  in  a  contiguous  state  and  to  be  maintained  as a residence of the
  borrower,  the  borrower's  spouse,   child,   grandchild,   parent   or
  grandparent.
    (1) For this subdivision:
    (i)  "mobile  home  chattel  paper"  means  written evidence of both a
  monetary obligation and a security  interest  of  first  priority  in  a
  mobile home and any equipment installed or to be installed therein; and
    (ii)   "mobile   home"  or  "manufactured  home"  means  a  structure,
  transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling  mode,  is
  eight  body  feet or more in width or forty body feet or more in length,
  or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or  more  square  feet,
  and  which  is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
  dwelling with or  without  a  permanent  foundation  when  connected  to
  required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning
  and electrical systems contained therein.
    (2)  If the loan is for the purpose of financing the purchase of a new
  mobile home,
    (i) it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after  the
  date thereof, and
    (ii)  the amount advanced shall not exceed one hundred per cent of the
  sum of  (a)  the  manufacturer's  invoice  price  of  such  mobile  home
  (including  any  installed  equipment),  excluding freight, plus (b) the
  invoice price of the manufacturer of any new equipment installed  or  to
  be installed by the dealer, excluding freight.
    (3) If the loan is for the purpose of financing the purchase of a used
  mobile home,
    (i)  it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after the
  date of the loan, and
    (ii) the amount advanced shall not exceed one hundred per cent of  the
  purchase  price  of  the used mobile home actually paid or the wholesale
  value of  such  mobile  home  (including  any  installed  equipment)  as
  established in the dealer's market, whichever is the lower.
    (4)  The loan shall be payable in equal or substantially equal monthly
  installments calculated from the date of the loan. Interest,  which  may
  be  taken  in advance, may be charged thereon, computed from the date of
  the loan to the date of the last installment payable thereunder, if  the
  loan has a maturity (i) not exceeding thirty-seven months, at a rate not
  to  exceed six dollars per annum discount per one hundred dollars of the
  face amount or ten dollars if the interest so computed is less than that
  amount, or (ii) exceeding thirty-seven months, at a rate not  to  exceed
  five  dollars  per  annum  discount  per one hundred dollars of the face
  amount or ten dollars, if the interest so computed  is  less  than  that
  amount;  provided  that the interest which may be charged, if it exceeds
  ten dollars, shall not exceed one per  cent  per  month  on  the  unpaid
  principal balance.
    (5)  The  authorized  interest  shall  include all charges incident to
  investigating and making any loan. No fee, commission, expense, or other
  charge shall be permitted except that the  bank  or  trust  company  may
  contract to charge the borrower (i) the fees payable to a public officer
  to perfect any lien or other security interest taken to secure the loan,
  or  the premium, not in excess of such fee, payable for any insurance in
  lieu of such filing; (ii) in case of default, and in accordance with the
  instrument evidencing the obligation, either a fine in an amount not  to
  exceed  five  per  cent  on  any  installment  which  has become due and
  remained unpaid for a period in excess of ten days,  but  no  such  fine
  shall  exceed  five  dollars and only one fine shall be collected on any
  such installment regardless of the duration of the default, and provided
  further that should the aggregate of such fines collected in  connection
  with  any  loan  exceed two per cent of such loan or twenty-five dollars
  the bank or trust company shall refund such  excess  within  sixty  days
  after  the loan is paid in full, or, subject to an allowance of unearned
  interest attributable to the amount in default, interest on each  amount
  past  due  at  a rate not in excess of one per cent per month during the
  period  of  delinquency;  (iii)  the  actual   expenditures,   including
  reasonable attorney's fees for necessary court process, and (iv) in case
  the bank or trust company insures a borrower under a credit unemployment
  insurance  policy,  group life, health, accident, or health and accident
  insurance policy, or requires insurance on the  property  securing  such
  loan,  an  amount  not in excess of the premiums lawfully chargeable. No
  bank or trust company shall require a  borrower  to  place  any  sum  on
  deposit,  or  to  make  deposits in lieu of regular periodic installment
  payments, or to do or refrain from  doing  any  other  act  which  would
  entail  additional expense or sacrifice, as a condition of a mobile home
  loan, as the superintendent may from time to time approve. No refund  or
  excess fines shall be required if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (6) A borrower may prepay the loan in full or, with the consent of the
  bank  or  trust company, may refinance the loan. In such event, the bank
  or trust company shall refund: (1) the unearned portion of the  interest
  to  the  borrower  the  amount  of  which  portion  shall  be determined
  according to a generally accepted actuarial method; provided that if the
  interest previously deducted (i) was less than ten  dollars,  no  refund
  shall  be required; or (ii) exceeded ten dollars and the earned interest
  is less than that amount, the bank or trust company may retain  such  an
  additional  amount  as will bring the earned interest to ten dollars and
  refund the remainder, and provided further,  that  unless  the  loan  is
  refinanced,  no  refund shall be required if it amounts to less than one
  dollar; and (2) if a charge was made to the borrower  for  premiums  for
  insuring  the  borrower  under  a  credit unemployment insurance policy,
  group life insurance policy, or under a group health, group accident  or
  group  health and accident insurance policy, the excess of the charge to
  the borrower therefor over the premiums paid or payable by the bank,  if
  such  premiums  were  paid  or  payable  by  the  bank  or trust company
  periodically, or the refund  for  such  insurance  premium  received  or
  receivable  by  the  bank  or trust company, if such premium was paid or
  payable in a lump sum by the bank or trust company. No such refund  need
  be  made  if  it  amounts  to less than one dollar. In the event (i) the
  maturity of the loan is accelerated due to the default of  the  borrower
  or  otherwise  and  judgment  is  obtained,  or  (ii)  repayment is made
  pursuant to any  such  insurance  policy,  the  borrower  or  his  legal
  representative, as the case may be, shall be entitled to the same refund
  as  if  the loan had been prepaid in full on the date of acceleration or
  repayment.
    (7) As a condition of any loan  made  pursuant  hereto,  the  borrower
  shall  certify  that the mobile home, for the purchase of which the loan
  is made, is intended to be maintained in the state or  in  a  contiguous
  state  as  a  residence  of  the borrower, the borrower's spouse, child,
  grandchild, parent or grandparent. If the mobile home shall  not  be  so
  maintained  on the ninetieth day next succeeding the date of the loan or
  if it is relocated so as to no longer be  located  in  the  state  or  a
  contiguous  state  at any time before the first anniversary of the loan,
  the loan and all authorized charges shall  become  immediately  due  and
  payable  subject  only to the refund provisions of paragraph six and the
  borrower may, if the contract so provides, be  required  to  pay  as  an
  additional  authorized  charge, a penalty in an amount not to exceed two
  per cent of the face amount of the loan.
    (8) No investment shall be made by a bank or trust company pursuant to
  this subdivision if the total amount invested by  it  pursuant  to  this
  subdivision exceeds, or by the making of such investment will exceed, an
  amount  equal  to  fifteen  per  cent of the assets of the bank or trust
  company.
    (9) Subject to such limitations and conditions as  the  superintendent
  of  financial  services  may  prescribe by general regulation, a bank or
  trust company may make a loan pursuant to  this  subdivision  which  the
  federal  housing  administrator  has insured or has made a commitment to
  insure and may receive and hold such debentures as  are  issued  by  the
  federal  housing administrator in payment of such insurance, or which is
  guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of the act  of  congress  entitled
  the  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act  of  1944."  No  law of this state
  prescribing or limiting the interest rate  upon  loans  or  advances  of
  credit or prescribing a penalty for violation thereof or prescribing the
  nature,  amount  or  form  of  security or requiring security upon which
  loans or advances of credit may be made or prescribing or  limiting  the
  period for which loans or advances of credit may be made or limiting the
  amount  of any class of loans, advances of credit or purchases which may
  be made shall be deemed  to  apply  to  loans,  advances  of  credit  or
  purchases  made  or  to  loans  acquired  by  purchase  pursuant to this
  paragraph.
    5-b. Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision  of  this  section,  a
  bank  or  trust  company may make loans for the purpose of defraying the
  cost of education of one or more students at a university or college, or
  at an elementary or secondary school  providing  education  required  of
  minors  which  may  provide  for  (i)  payment  of  origination fees, or
  guarantee fees in such amounts as the superintendent may  from  time  to
  time  approve;  (ii)  capitalization  of  interest,  provided  that  the
  borrower has the option to avoid capitalization by paying such  interest
  without  penalty;  and  (iii) deferral and forbearance of payments under
  circumstances for which such deferral or forbearance  could  be  granted
  for  loans made pursuant to Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
  (20 USC 1070 et seq.).
    6. The knowingly taking, receiving, reserving or  charging  a  greater
  rate  of  interest  than  that authorized by this section as computed by
  this section, shall be held and adjudged  a  forfeiture  of  the  entire
  interest  which  the  note,  bill  of exchange or other evidence of debt
  carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon, and  if  a
  greater  rate  of  interest has been paid, the person paying the same or
  his legal representative may recover from  the  bank  or  trust  company
  twice the entire amount of the interest thus paid.
    7. Upon an advance of money, whether or not repayable on demand, to an
  amount not less than five thousand dollars, made upon documents of title
  within  article  seven  of  the  uniform  commercial  code or negotiable
  instruments within  article  three  or  article  eight  of  the  uniform
  commercial  code  pledged as collateral security for such repayment, any
  bank or trust company may receive or contract to receive and collect  as
  compensation for making such advance any sum which may be agreed upon by
  the parties to such transaction; provided that such advance is (a) to or
  for  any  partner  of  a  firm  which  is  a  member  firm of a national
  securities  exchange  registered  with  the  securities   and   exchange
  commission   as   a  national  securities  exchange  under  the  federal
  securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, to enable such  partner  to
  make  a  contribution of capital to such firm or to purchase stock of an
  affiliated corporation of such  firm,  provided  that  such  partner  is
  actively  engaged  in  the  business  of such firm and devotes the major
  portion of his time thereto, or (b) to or for any person who is or  will
  become  a holder of stock of a corporation which is a member corporation
  of such a national securities exchange to enable such person to purchase
  stock of  such  corporation  or  to  purchase  stock  of  an  affiliated
  corporation  of  such corporation, provided that such person is actively
  engaged in the business  of  such  corporation  and  devotes  the  major
  portion of his time thereto.
    8.  (a)  The  superintendent  shall  have  the  power  to prescribe by
  regulation (i) the maximum charge which may be imposed in this state  by
  a  bank  or  trust  company  in connection with a check or other written
  order drawn upon it on insufficient funds, irrespective of  whether  the
  instrument  is  paid,  accepted,  or  returned by the bank, and (ii) the
  maximum charge which may be imposed in this state by  a  bank  or  trust
  company in connection with a check or other written order received by it
  for  deposit  or collection and subsequently dishonored and returned for
  any reason by the drawee.
    (b) No bank or trust company shall, in connection  with  the  payment,
  acceptance  or  return  of  such  check  or order, impose any fee, fine,
  commission or other charge,  however  designated,  in  addition  to  the
  maximum  charge established therefore by the superintendent of financial
  services pursuant to paragraph (a)  of  this  subdivision,  except  that
  nothing  herein  expressed  shall  prevent  a bank or trust company from
  taking, receiving, reserving or charging interest, as authorized by  law
  in  connection  with  credit  extended in connection with the payment of
  such check or order or from imposing any charge  in  accordance  with  a
  written  agreement  established  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
  subdivision five of this section. A bank or trust  company  may,  as  an
  accommodation  to its customers, pay, accept, or return a check or order
  without  charge,  or  at  a  lesser  charge  than  the  maximum   charge
  established by the superintendent of financial services.
    (c)  In prescribing a maximum charge pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
  subdivision, the superintendent shall consider  the  following  factors:
  (i)  the  cost of processing an overdraft or returned check or order, as
  the case may be, (ii)  the  charge  necessary  to  deter  overdrafts  or
  returned  checks  or  orders,  as  the case may be, and (iii) such other
  economic or cost factors  that  the  superintendent  shall  deem  to  be
  appropriate.  Prior to the superintendent's prescribing any such maximum
  charge, the superintendent shall issue a  written  determination  as  to
  such  maximum  charge,  reciting  the cost and other data upon which the
  determination is based.
    (d) The superintendent  of  financial  services  may  promulgate  such
  regulations as it deems necessary and proper to implement and define the
  provisions of this subdivision. The superintendent of financial services
  may prescribe maximum charges from time to time, but not more often than
  once in any six month period, and shall provide reasonable notice to the
  public  of  any change in such maximum charges, of the effective date of
  such change, which shall not be  less  than  seven  days  following  the
  adoption of such change by the superintendent of financial services, and
  of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this subdivision.
    9.  A  bank  or  trust  company  may,  in  the  case  of  business  or
  agricultural loans in the amount  of  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  or
  more,  take,  receive, reserve, and charge on any loan or discount made,
  or upon any note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of debt,  interest
  at  a  rate  of  not more than five per centum in excess of the discount
  rate on ninety-day commercial paper in effect  at  the  Federal  Reserve
  Bank  of  New York, and such interest may be taken in advance, reckoning
  the days for which the note, bill, or other evidence of debt has to run.


::: 109:closing_of_books_profits_how_to_be_computed.html
 
    &#167; 109.  Closing  of  books; profits; how to be computed. 1. Every bank
  and every trust company shall close its books not less  frequently  than
  annually  for  the  purpose  of  transferring  its  net  profits  to the
  undivided profits and surplus fund accounts.
    2. To determine the amount of  gross  income  of  any  bank  or  trust
  company for the purpose of computing its net profits for any period, the
  following items may be included:
    (a) All income received or properly accrued, provided that no interest
  shall  be  accrued  upon interest-bearing assets upon which a default of
  principal or interest has existed for a period which shall be determined
  by  the  superintendent  except  interest-bearing  assets   secured   by
  collateral  the  ascertained  value  of  which  is at least equal to the
  amount at which the asset plus all interest accrued thereon  is  carried
  on its books.
    (b)  Realizable  profits  resulting  from a revaluation to ascertained
  current  market  of  a  foreign  exchange  position,  provided  that   a
  consistent  practice  is  followed in the deduction from gross income of
  losses so resulting.
    (c) Amounts added to cost or charged to amortization reserve  for  the
  purpose  of  amortizing  discounts on securities purchased for less than
  par, provided that no discount shall be  amortized  on  securities  upon
  which a default exists.
    (d)  Any  profits actually realized from the sale or other disposition
  of securities, real estate or other property.
    (e) Amounts recovered on  assets  previously  charged  off,  including
  amounts  allowed  by  the superintendent on account of assets previously
  disallowed by him and other amounts allowed by the board of directors on
  account of assets previously disallowed by it. For the purpose  of  this
  paragraph  amounts transferred to valuation reserves shall be considered
  as amounts charged off.
    (f) Provided the superintendent shall have approved, and only  to  the
  extent  of  such  approval,  any  increase in the book value of the real
  estate and building or buildings thereon used by  it  as  its  place  or
  places of business.
    (g)  Such  other  items  as the superintendent, in his discretion, may
  permit to be included.
    3. To determine the  amount  of  net  profits  for  such  period,  the
  following items shall be deducted from gross income:
    (a)  All  expenses  paid or properly accrued in the transaction of its
  business and the management of its affairs.
    (b) Interest paid or properly accrued upon debts owing by it.
    (c) Amounts deducted from cost or credited to amortization reserve for
  the purpose of amortizing premiums on securities purchased for more than
  par.
    (d) All losses  sustained,  including  assets,  or  portions  thereof,
  disallowed by the superintendent, and other assets, or portions thereof,
  disallowed  by  the  board  of  directors.  With  the  approval  of  the
  superintendent, any items referred to in this paragraph may be excluded.
  For the purposes of this paragraph, provision for disallowances  may  be
  effected  by charge off or by establishment of valuation reserve and any
  existing valuation reserve may be deducted from  the  related  asset  in
  determining the amount of loss sustained.
    4.  The balance thus obtained shall constitute the net profits of such
  bank or trust company for such period.


::: 10:declaration_of_policy.html
 
    &#167; 10. Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy of
  the  state  of  New  York that the business of all banking organizations
  shall be supervised and regulated through the  department  of  financial
  services  in such manner as to insure the safe and sound conduct of such
  business, to conserve their assets, to prevent  hoarding  of  money,  to
  eliminate   unsound  and  destructive  competition  among  such  banking
  organizations and thus to maintain public confidence  in  such  business
  and  protect  the  public  interest  and  the  interests  of depositors,
  creditors, shareholders and stockholders.


::: 110:surplus_fund_of_what_composed_and_for_what_purposes_used.html
 
    &#167; 110.  Surplus  fund;  of  what composed, and for what purposes used.
  Every bank and every trust company shall create a fund to be known as  a
  surplus fund. Such fund may be created or increased by contributions, by
  transfers  from  undivided profits, or from net profits. Such fund shall
  not be available for the payment of dividends,  except  with  the  prior
  approval  of  the  superintendent,  and  may  be used to pay expenses or
  absorb losses only in the event  such  bank  or  trust  company  has  no
  undivided profits against which such expenses or losses may be charged.


::: 111:profits_credits_to_surplus_fund_and_to_undivided_profits.html
 
    &#167; 111.  Profits;  credits to surplus fund and to undivided profits. In
  any case where the combined capital stock, surplus  fund  and  undivided
  profits  of  a  bank or trust company do not equal ten per centum of its
  net deposit liabilities, the superintendent of financial services may in
  its discretion require such bank or trust company at the close  of  each
  accounting  period  to credit its surplus fund with a portion of its net
  profits for such period, not to exceed ten per centum thereof, until its
  combined capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits equal ten per
  centum of its net deposit liabilities. For the purposes of this section,
  the term "net deposit liabilities" shall mean total  deposits  including
  all  amounts  due to national banks, banks, bankers, trust companies and
  savings banks, the amounts due on certified and  cashier's  checks,  and
  for  unpaid  dividends  less  the  amounts of balances due from national
  banks, banks, bankers, and trust companies and cash items in process  of
  collection payable immediately upon presentation in the United States.


::: 112:dividends_payable_from_net_profits_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 112.  Dividends;  payable  from  net  profits;  restrictions. 1. The
  directors of a bank or trust  company  may  annually,  semi-annually  or
  quarterly,   but   not   more   frequently   unless  authorized  by  the
  superintendent by regulation or otherwise,  declare  such  dividends  as
  they  deem  judicious  to be paid from net profits. No dividend shall be
  declared, credited or paid so long as there is any impairment of capital
  stock. No bank or  trust  company  having  outstanding  preferred  stock
  shall,  except  as  otherwise  authorized by the superintendent, declare
  dividends upon common stock for any period other than a period for which
  dividends are declared upon preferred stock.
    2. The approval of the superintendent shall be required if  the  total
  of  all  dividends  declared  by a bank or trust company in any calendar
  year shall exceed the total of its net profits for  that  year  combined
  with  its  retained  net  profits  of  the preceding two years, less any
  required transfer to surplus  or  a  fund  for  the  retirement  of  any
  preferred stock.
    3. For the purposes of this section, the term "net profits" shall mean
  the  remainder  of  all  earnings  from  current  operations plus actual
  recoveries on loans and investments and other  assets,  after  deducting
  from  the  total  thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses,
  accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal and  state
  taxes.


::: 113:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office.html
 
    &#167; 113.  Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
  Any bank or  trust  company  may  make  a  written  application  to  the
  superintendent,  such  application to be accompanied by an investigation
  fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of  this  chapter,  for
  leave  to  change  its place or one of its places of business to another
  place in the state or  for  leave  to  change  the  designation  of  its
  principal office to a branch office and to change the designation of one
  of  its  branch  offices  to its principal office. The application shall
  state the reasons for such proposed change.
    Such  change  may  be  made  upon  the   written   approval   of   the
  superintendent.    If  the  superintendent  shall  grant his certificate
  authorizing the change of location, as provided in article two  of  this
  chapter,  the bank or trust company may, upon or after the day specified
  in the certificate, remove its property  and  effects  to  the  location
  designated therein.


::: 114:assessment_of_stockholders_to_make_good_impairment_of_capital_stock_sale_of_stock.html
 
    &#167; 114.  Assessment  of stockholders to make good impairment of capital
  stock; sale of stock.
    Whenever the superintendent shall have made requisition upon any  bank
  or  trust  company  pursuant  to  the  provisions of article two of this
  chapter to make good the amount of an impairment of its  capital  stock,
  the directors of the bank or trust company shall immediately give notice
  of  such  requisition  to  each  stockholder  and  of  the amount of the
  assessment which he must  pay  for  the  purpose  of  making  good  such
  deficiency, by a written or printed notice mailed to such stockholder at
  his  last  address  appearing  upon  the  records  of  the bank or trust
  company, or served personally upon him. If any stockholder shall  refuse
  or  neglect  to pay the assessment specified in such notice within sixty
  days from the date thereof, the directors of such bank or trust  company
  shall have the right to sell to the highest bidder at public auction the
  stock  of  such  stockholder,  after giving previous notice of such sale
  once a  week  for  two  successive  weeks  in  a  newspaper  of  general
  circulation  in  the  county  where the principal office of such bank or
  trust company is located; or such stock may be sold at private sale, and
  without such published notice, provided, however, that before  making  a
  private  sale  thereof  an offer in writing to purchase such stock shall
  first be obtained, and a copy thereof served upon the owner of record of
  the stock sought to be sold either personally or by mailing  a  copy  of
  such  offer to such owner at his last address appearing upon the records
  of the bank or trust company; and if, after service of such offer,  such
  owner  shall  still  refuse or neglect to pay such assessment within two
  weeks from the time of service of such offer,  the  said  directors  may
  accept  such  offer  and sell such stock to the person or persons making
  such offer, or to any other person or persons making a larger offer than
  the amount named in the offer submitted to such  stockholder;  but  said
  stock shall in no event be sold for a smaller sum than the amount of the
  assessment  called  for  and  the  necessary costs of sale.   Out of the
  avails of the stock sold the directors shall pay the necessary costs  of
  sale  and  the amount of the assessment called for thereon. The balance,
  if any, shall be paid to the person or persons whose stock has been thus
  sold. A sale of stock  as  herein  provided  shall  effect  an  absolute
  cancellation  of  the outstanding certificate or certificates evidencing
  the stock so sold, and shall render the same null and  void  and  a  new
  certificate  or  certificates  shall  be  issued  to  the  purchaser  or
  purchasers of said stock.


::: 11:department_of_financial_services__official_documents_destruction_of_documents_official_communications.html
 
    &#167; 11.   Department   of   financial   services;   official  documents;
  destruction of documents; official  communications.  1.  The  department
  shall  be  charged  with  the  execution  of  the  laws  relating to the
  individuals, partnerships, corporations and other entities to which this
  chapter is applicable and shall exercise such powers  and  perform  such
  duties  as  are conferred and imposed upon it by this chapter, or by any
  law of this state.
    2.  (a)  Except  as  specified  in  paragraph  (b)  or  (c)  of   this
  subdivision,  any  report  expressly  required  to  be  rendered  to the
  superintendent under any provision of this chapter,  any  report  of  an
  examination  made  in accordance with any provision of this chapter, and
  any oath or declaration of office received by the  department  shall  be
  retained  in  such  form and for such period as the superintendent finds
  necessary  and  proper.  After  such  period  the  superintendent  shall
  recommend disposal of such material in accordance with the provisions of
  the arts and cultural affairs law.
    (b)  Reports  made  in  accordance with section twenty-eight-b of this
  article or pursuant to the rules and regulations of  the  superintendent
  promulgated in connection with assessing a banking organization's record
  of  performance  in meeting the credit needs of local communities within
  the meaning of section twenty-eight-b of this article, including reports
  expressly required to be rendered to the superintendent and  reports  of
  examinations may be destroyed at the direction of the superintendent and
  in  accordance  with the provisions of the arts and cultural affairs law
  after three years from date of receipt thereof, provided any such report
  has first been photographed, microphotographed or otherwise  reproduced.
  Each  such reproduction shall be retained in the files of the department
  for a period of at least  fifteen  years  from  the  date  of  the  last
  received  report,  oath  or  declaration  appearing  thereon.  After the
  expiration of such period, such reproduction may  be  destroyed  at  the
  direction of the superintendent and in accordance with the provisions of
  the  arts  and  cultural affairs law. Such reproduction thereof shall be
  deemed, for any purpose, the equivalent of the original of such  report.
  Any  such report not so reproduced shall be retained in the files of the
  department for a period of at least  fifteen  years  from  the  date  of
  receipt thereof, after which it may be destroyed at the direction of the
  superintendent  and  in  accordance  with the provisions of the arts and
  cultural affairs law.
    (c) This subdivision shall not apply  to  any  records,  documents  or
  correspondence  referred  to  in subdivision four of section six hundred
  twenty-seven of this chapter.
    4. Any communication from the department to any  person,  partnership,
  corporation   or   other  entity  may  contain  a  direction  that  such
  communication shall be presented to the controlling owners or  principal
  management  of  such entity, members of such partnership or to the board
  of directors or trustees of such corporation. A communication containing
  such direction shall be for the purposes of  this  chapter  an  official
  communication.  The superintendent may, in his or her discretion, notify
  in writing each owner or principal manager of such entity, every  member
  of such partnership and every director or trustee of such corporation of
  the  sending of such a communication and, in that event the notification
  shall state the date of such communication.


::: 12-a:power_of_state_chartered_banking_institutions_to_exercise_the_rights_of_counterpart_federally_chartered_banking_institutions.html
 
    * &#167;  12-a.  Power  of state chartered banking institutions to exercise
  the rights of counterpart federally chartered banking  institutions.  1.
  Definitions.  (a)  As  used  in  this  section, "state chartered banking
  institution" shall mean any bank, trust company, private banker, savings
  bank, savings and loan  association,  foreign  banking  corporation,  or
  credit union.
    (b) As used in this section and as is applicable, "federally chartered
  banking  institution"  shall  mean  (i) any national banking association
  organized pursuant to the National Bank Act of 1864, as amended, (12 USC
  21 et seq.); (ii) any  federal  savings  association  as  such  term  is
  defined  by  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Act,  as amended, (12 USC
  1813(b)(2)); (iii) a federal branch and agency of  a  foreign  bank,  as
  such  terms  are  defined  by  the International Banking Act of 1978, as
  amended, (122 USC 3101); or (iv) a federal credit union, as such term is
  defined by the Federal Credit Union Act, as amended, (12 USC 1752(1)).
    (c) As used in this section, "charter"  shall  mean  the  organization
  certificate  or  comparable  document of a state banking institution, or
  the  license  for  a  state  branch  or  agency  of  a  foreign  banking
  corporation,  or a similar organizational document for a federal banking
  institution or a federal branch or agency, and  "chartered"  shall  mean
  the  formal act of the state or appropriate federal regulatory agency in
  approving and conveying such charter of a banking institution.
    (d) As used in this section, "federally permitted  power"  shall  mean
  any  right,  power,  privilege  or  benefit,  any activity, or any loan,
  investment  or  transaction  which   a   federally   chartered   banking
  institution  directly  or  through  a  subsidiary  or  subsidiaries, may
  lawfully exercise or into which it may lawfully engage or enter.
    (e) As used in this section "foreign banking corporation" shall mean a
  banking corporation organized under the laws of a  foreign  country  and
  acting   through  a  branch  or  agency  licensed  pursuant  to  section
  twenty-six of this article.
    (f) As used in this section, unless the  context  requires  otherwise,
  the  term  "subsidiary"  shall  have  the  same  meaning as set forth in
  subdivision five of section  one  hundred  forty-one  of  this  chapter,
  except that (i) any reference therein to "bank holding company" shall be
  deemed to refer to a "state chartered banking institution" as defined in
  this  section,  and  (ii)  with  respect  to  a  credit  union, the term
  "subsidiary" as  used  in  this  section  shall  mean  a  "credit  union
  organization".
    2. Pursuant to this section and notwithstanding any other provision of
  law,  except  as  otherwise  provided  in its charter, a state-chartered
  banking institution may exercise any federally permitted  power  of  its
  counterpart federally chartered banking institution as herein set forth:
    (a)  a  bank,  private  banker,  or  trust  company  may  exercise any
  federally permitted power of a national banking association;
    (b) a savings bank or savings and loan association  may  exercise  any
  federally permitted power of a federal savings association;
    (c) a foreign banking corporation acting through a branch may exercise
  any federally permitted power of a foreign bank acting through a federal
  branch;
    (d)  a  foreign  banking  corporation  acting  through  an  agency may
  exercise any federally permitted power of a foreign bank acting  through
  a federal agency;
    (e)  a  credit  union  may exercise any federally permitted power of a
  federal credit union.
    Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to  permit  a  state
  chartered  banking institution to exercise any federally permitted power
  except in a manner consistent with the following provisions of  law,  in
  each case, as the terms contained in such provisions may be amended from
  time to time:
    (i) chapter one of the laws of nineteen hundred ninety-four;
    (ii) chapter nine of the laws of nineteen hundred ninety-six; and
    (iii)  sections fourteen-c, twenty-eight-b, thirty-nine and forty-four
  of this article, and sections  six  hundred  five  through  six  hundred
  thirty-four  of  this  chapter,  and  with  respect to savings banks and
  savings and loan associations, respectively, section two  hundred  forty
  and section three hundred ninety-six of this chapter.
    3.  Except  with  respect  to  a  federally  permitted  power approved
  pursuant to subdivision  four  of  this  section,  prior  to  any  state
  chartered   banking   institution  initially  exercising  any  federally
  permitted power pursuant to this section, such banking institution shall
  make an application individually or with one  or  more  state  chartered
  banking   institutions   to  the  superintendent  indicating  that  such
  institution or institutions intend to exercise such federally  permitted
  power  and  the  basis on which such institution or institutions believe
  such power is a federally permitted power. The superintendent shall have
  one hundred twenty days from receipt of  the  application  to  determine
  whether  it  meets  the requirements of this section, provided that such
  period may be extended for an additional period of time with the written
  consent of the applicant or applicants. If such  application  meets  the
  requirements  of  this  section,  the  superintendent  shall  post  such
  application upon the  bulletin  board  of  the  department  pursuant  to
  section forty-two of this article. If such application does not meet the
  requirements  of this section, the superintendent shall, within ten days
  of such determination, notify the applicant or applicants of the reasons
  why the application fails to meet the requirements.  The  superintendent
  shall  determine, consistent with the standards set forth in subdivision
  five of this section, whether to approve  such  application  subject  to
  such terms and conditions as the superintendent may deem appropriate, in
  the  superintendent's sole discretion. Such determination, shall be made
  by the superintendent within forty-five days after the posting  of  such
  application,  provided  however  that  the superintendent may notify the
  applicant or applicants that the review  of  the  application  shall  be
  extended for an additional period of time not exceeding sixty days after
  the  posting  of such application, and provided further that such period
  of time may be extended for  an  additional  period  of  time  with  the
  written consent of the applicant or applicants. The superintendent shall
  not act upon the application prior to thirty days after such application
  has  been  posted.  If the superintendent approves such application, the
  superintendent shall, within ten  days  of  approving  the  application,
  notify the applicant or applicants in writing thereof, and the applicant
  or  applicants  may  exercise  such federally permitted power subject to
  such terms and conditions as the superintendent may  have  approved.  If
  the  superintendent declines such application, the superintendent shall,
  within ten days of making such determination, notify  the  applicant  or
  applicants  in writing thereof. An applicant or applicants may, upon the
  superintendent's failure to  comply  with  this  section,  petition  the
  superintendent   to  act  upon  the  application.  The  failure  of  the
  superintendent to act upon the application or notify  the  applicant  or
  applicants,  in  writing,  as  to the reasons why action cannot be taken
  within thirty days of receipt of such petition shall be deemed a  denial
  of   the  application,  which  shall  be  subject  to  judicial  review.
  Notwithstanding any other law, the superintendent may make the  approval
  of  an  application  under  this  section  applicable  to  one  or  more
  additional state chartered banking institutions that  are  qualified  to
  exercise  the  same  federally  permitted  powers  as  the  applicant or
  applicants pursuant to subdivision two of this section, subject to  such
  terms  and  conditions  as  the  superintendent shall find necessary and
  appropriate.
    4.   Notwithstanding   any  other  law,  the  superintendent,  in  the
  superintendent's discretion,  may,  when  the  superintendent  deems  it
  necessary  and  appropriate after considering the standards set forth in
  subdivision five of this section, by order, authorize one or more  state
  chartered  banking institutions to exercise a federally permitted power,
  subject to such terms and conditions as the  superintendent  shall  find
  necessary   and   appropriate.   Prior   to   issuing  such  order,  the
  superintendent shall post notice of the  superintendent's  intention  to
  issue  such  order upon the bulletin board of the department pursuant to
  section forty-two of this article, and shall not act upon such intention
  prior to thirty days after such notice has been posted.
    5.  Prior  to  approving  any  application  or  proposal  pursuant  to
  subdivision three or four of this section, the superintendent shall make
  a finding that the approval of such application or proposal is:
    (i) consistent with the policy of the state of New York as declared in
  section  ten  of  this article and thereby protects the public interest,
  including  the  interests  of   depositors,   creditors,   shareholders,
  stockholders and consumers; and
    (ii)  necessary  to achieve or maintain parity between state chartered
  banking institutions and their counterpart federally  chartered  banking
  institutions  with  respect  to  rights,  powers,  privileges, benefits,
  activities, loans, investments or transactions.
    6. A federally permitted power authorized  pursuant  to  this  section
  shall  not exceed and shall be limited by any conditions, qualifications
  or restrictions on the same when exercised by  a  counterpart  federally
  chartered  banking  institution of a state chartered banking institution
  unless the state chartered banking institution is so authorized by other
  New York state law, or a rule, regulation or policy adopted pursuant  to
  such   other   New   York   state   law,  or  by  a  judicial  decision.
  Notwithstanding any other law, the  superintendent  may,  at  any  time,
  impose  by  order  any  other  terms  and  conditions as he or she finds
  necessary and proper including, but not limited to, a  requirement  that
  any  federally  permitted power authorized by this section be exercised,
  conducted  or  held  in  a  subsidiary  of  a  state  chartered  banking
  institution.  In the event that federally chartered banking institutions
  located in the state of New  York  lose  the  authority  to  exercise  a
  federally  permitted  power,  based  upon which comparable authority was
  granted to the counterpart state chartered banking institutions pursuant
  to this section, then unless such authority is authorized by  other  New
  York state law, or a rule, regulation or policy adopted pursuant to such
  other  New  York state law, or by a judicial decision, the authorization
  for such state chartered banking institutions pursuant to  this  section
  shall  be  deemed  revoked,  provided, however, that any such revocation
  shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed upon the
  counterpart  federally  chartered  banking  institutions   or   by   the
  superintendent.
    7.  (a)  In those instances where state chartered banking institutions
  are permitted to engage in the business of insurance  pursuant  to  this
  section,  they  shall  do  so  subject to all insurance laws, rules, and
  regulations; provided, however, that the superintendent may exempt state
  chartered  banking  institutions  from  any  insurance  law,   rule   or
  regulation   which  has  been  preempted  under  federal  law,  rule  or
  regulation for federally chartered banking  institutions  if  such  law,
  rule  or  regulation  has been preempted because it applies to insurance
  activities of federally chartered banking institutions and not to  those
  of other entities.
    (b)  In  those  instances where a federally permitted power authorized
  pursuant to this section is subject  to  regulation  by  an  agency,  as
  defined  in  subdivision  one  of  section  one hundred two of the state
  administrative procedure act, other than the superintendent, then when a
  state chartered banking institution exercises such  federally  permitted
  power,  unless  it  is  so  authorized by other New York state law, or a
  rule, regulation or policy adopted pursuant to such other New York state
  law, or by  a  judicial  decision,  it  shall  do  so  subject  to  such
  regulation  to  the  same  extent  and in the same manner as such agency
  regulates entities other  than  state  chartered  banking  institutions,
  except  to  the extent that federally chartered banking institutions are
  not subject to such regulation.
    (c) Any state chartered banking  institution  or  federally  chartered
  banking  institution  and  any  subsidiary or affiliate thereof which is
  licensed to sell insurance in this state  shall  maintain  separate  and
  distinct  books  and  records  relating  to  its insurance transactions,
  including all files relating to and reflecting consumer complaints,  and
  such  insurance  books  and  records  shall  be  made  available  to the
  superintendent for inspection upon reasonable notice.
    8. On or before June first of  each  year,  the  superintendent  shall
  submit  a  report  to  the  governor,  the  speaker of the assembly, the
  temporary president of the senate, the minority leaders  of  the  senate
  and  assembly, and the chairs and ranking minority members of the senate
  and assembly banks committees, which shall include, with respect to  the
  authority  provided  for  in this section, with respect to the preceding
  calendar year, (1) a listing of  state  chartered  banking  institutions
  that were established, (2) a listing of institutions that have converted
  to  a  federal charter or have been acquired by, or merged with, another
  banking institution, (3) the number of  New  York  banking  institutions
  exercising  the insurance activities authorized by this section, (4) the
  total number of New York chartered banking institutions located in  this
  state,  and  (5)  the  total  amount of assets of such chartered banking
  institutions by type.
    9. Any rules or regulations promulgated by the banking board  pursuant
  to  former  sections  fourteen-g and fourteen-h of this chapter prior to
  September first, two thousand seven, and any resolutions adopted by  the
  banking  board  pursuant  to  this  section  after  September first, two
  thousand seven and before the effective date of the chapter of the  laws
  of  two  thousand  eleven  which amended this subdivision, including any
  such rules, regulations and resolutions which in whole or in part impose
  conditions, qualifications or restrictions on  any  federally  permitted
  powers authorized thereby which exceed the conditions, qualifications or
  restrictions imposed on the same when exercised by a federally chartered
  banking  institution,  shall remain in full force and effect on or after
  such date, unless any such rule, regulation or resolution is  thereafter
  superseded,  modified,  or revoked by the superintendent pursuant to the
  provisions of subdivisions three and four of this section.
    * NB Repealed September 10, 2019


::: 121:reports_to_directors.html
 
    &#167; 121.  Reports  to  directors. The board of directors shall, at least
  once in each year by resolution duly recorded in the minutes,  designate
  an  officer  or  officers  whose duty it shall be to prepare and submit,
  either to each director present at each regular meeting of the board, or
  to each member of an executive committee of not less than  five  members
  of such board, present at a regular meeting of such committee, a written
  report as described in this section. Except as otherwise provided by the
  superintendent  by  regulation,  which  regulation  may define the terms
  contained herein and  establish  such  requirements  according  to  size
  and/or business activities of a bank or trust company, such report shall
  include  all  the purchases and sales of securities, and every discount,
  loan or other advance, including  all  renewals  made  and  the  maximum
  overdraft  permitted  in  each  account,  since  the  date  of  the last
  preceding similar report, describing the collateral to such indebtedness
  as of the date of the report; but such officer or officers may omit from
  such report discounts,  loans  or  advances,  including  overdrafts  and
  renewals,  of  an  amount  less  than  one-half of one per centum of the
  combined capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such  bank
  or  trust  company,  or  less  than  one  thousand dollars, whatever the
  combined capital stock, surplus  fund  and  undivided  profits  may  be.
  Unless  the  superintendent shall provide otherwise by regulation, which
  regulation may define the terms  contained  herein  and  establish  such
  requirements  according  to size and/or business activities of a bank or
  trust company,  such  report  shall  also  contain  a  list  giving  the
  aggregate  of  loans,  discounts  and advances, including overdrafts and
  renewals, to each individual, partnership,  unincorporated  association,
  corporation  or  person whose liability to the bank or trust company has
  been increased, since the date of the last preceding similar  report  to
  an  amount  equal  to  or  more  than  the  amount  above required to be
  reported, and such  report  shall  also  include  any  further  increase
  thereafter provided that the amount of any such increase, either itself,
  or  together  with  other  increases since such loan, discount, advance,
  overdraft or renewal was last reported is equal to more  than  one-tenth
  of  one  per  centum  of  the  combined  capital stock, surplus fund and
  undivided profits of such bank or trust company. Each such report  shall
  also  contain  a description of the collateral to such indebtedness held
  by the bank or trust company as of the date of  the  report  unless  the
  superintendent  shall  provide  otherwise  by regulation. Such aggregate
  liabilities  shall  be  computed  as  provided  in  paragraph   (e)   of
  subdivision  one of section one hundred three of this article. A copy of
  such report, together with a list  of  the  directors  present  at  such
  meeting,  verified  by  the affidavit of the officer or officers charged
  with the duty of preparing and submitting such  report  shall  be  filed
  with  the records of the bank or trust company within five business days
  after such meeting, and be presumptive evidence of the  matters  therein
  stated.


::: 122:examinations_of_banks_and_trust_companies_by_directors_employment_of_assistants.html
 
    &#167; 122.  Examinations  of  banks  and  trust  companies  by  directors;
  employment of assistants.  1.   It shall be the duty  of  the  board  of
  directors  of  every  bank and every trust company once in each calendar
  year to examine, or cause a committee of at least three of  its  members
  to  examine,  such  bank or trust company for the purpose of determining
  its financial condition and reviewing its investment, loan and audit and
  control policies and in such examination particular attention  shall  be
  given  to  the  loans  or  discounts  made directly or indirectly to its
  officers or directors, or for the benefit of such officers or directors,
  or for the benefit of other  corporations  of  which  such  officers  or
  directors  are  also  officers  or  directors,  or  in which they have a
  beneficial interest as stockholders, creditors, or otherwise,  with  the
  special  view  of  ascertaining  their safety and present value, and the
  value of the collateral security, if any, held in connection  therewith,
  and  to  such  other  matters  as  the  superintendent may require. Such
  directors shall have the power to employ such assistants in making  such
  examination  as they may deem necessary, and shall employ the assistance
  of independent auditors  if  the  superintendent  deems  inadequate  the
  internal  auditing  and  control  procedures established by such bank or
  trust company. The various offices, departments and phases  of  business
  of  any such bank or trust company may be examined as of different dates
  during the year.
    2. With respect to any bank or trust company subject to the provisions
  of  section  one  hundred  twelve  of  the  Federal  Deposit   Insurance
  Corporation  Act of 1991, as implemented by the provisions of part three
  hundred sixty-three of the rules and regulations of the Federal  Deposit
  Insurance  Corporation,  as  they  may  be  amended  from  time to time,
  compliance  with  such  provisions  shall  be  deemed  to  satisfy   the
  examination requirement of this section.


::: 123:reports_of_directors_examinations.html
 
    &#167; 123. Reports of directors' examinations.  1.  A report in writing of
  any examination made pursuant to the requirements of section one hundred
  twenty-two of this article, shall be presented to the board of directors
  of  such  bank  or  trust  company  at  their next regular meeting after
  completion of such examination, and placed on file in such bank or trust
  company,  and  a  duplicate  thereof  filed  in  the   office   of   the
  superintendent.  Such  report  shall  contain  such  information  as the
  superintendent shall require.
    2. A report prepared pursuant to part three hundred sixty-three of the
  rules and regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation,  as
  the  same  may be amended from time to time, may, in the sole discretion
  of the  superintendent,  satisfy  the  reporting  requirements  of  this
  section.
    3.  Any report filed in the office of the superintendent shall include
  a certificate that such report was presented to the board of  directors,
  in the form prescribed by the superintendent.


::: 124:communications_from_department_of_financial_services_to_be_submitted_to_directors_and_noted_in_minutes.html
 
    &#167; 124.  Communications  from  department  of  financial services to be
  submitted to directors and noted in minutes. Any officer of  a  bank  or
  trust  company  who  receives  from  the office of the superintendent an
  official communication as defined in article two of this  chapter  shall
  submit  such communication to the board of directors at the next meeting
  of such board, and such communication shall be duly noted in the minutes
  of the meetings of such board.


::: 125:reports_to_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167; 125.  Reports  to  superintendent;  penalty  for failure to make. 1.
  Within fifteen days after service upon it of the notice provided for  by
  section thirty-seven of this chapter, every bank and every trust company
  shall   make  a  written  report  of  its  financial  condition  to  the
  superintendent, which report shall be in  such  form  and  contain  such
  information as the superintendent of financial services may prescribe.
    2.  Every  bank  and  every  trust  company shall also make such other
  special reports to the superintendent  as  he  may  from  time  to  time
  require,  in  such form and at such date as may be prescribed by him and
  such reports shall, if required by him, be subscribed  and  affirmed  as
  true under the penalties of perjury.
    3. If any bank or trust company shall fail to make any report required
  by  or pursuant to this section, on or before the day designated for the
  making thereof, or shall fail to include therein any prescribed  matter,
  such  bank  or trust company shall forfeit to the people of the state an
  amount as determined pursuant to section forty-four-a  of  this  chapter
  for  every  day  that  such report shall be delayed or withheld, and for
  every day that it shall fail to report any such omitted  matter,  unless
  the  time  therefor  shall  have  been extended by the superintendent as
  provided in article two of this chapter.


::: 128:preservation_of_books_and_records.html
 
    &#167; 128.  Preservation  of books and records. Every bank and every trust
  company shall preserve all its records of final entry,  including  cards
  used under the card system and deposit tickets, for a period of at least
  six  years from the date of making the same or from the date of the last
  entry thereon; provided,  however,  that  preservation  of  photographic
  reproductions  thereof  or records in photographic form shall constitute
  compliance with the requirements of this  section.  Notwithstanding  the
  foregoing,  the  superintendent  of  financial services may prescribe by
  regulation such period of time longer or shorter than six  years  during
  which  all  records kept by banks and trust companies as fiduciary shall
  be preserved in original form.


::: 129:requirement_of_notice_on_withdrawal_of_certain_time_deposits_notice_to_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 129.  Requirement  of notice on withdrawal of certain time deposits;
  notice to superintendent. In the event that any bank  or  trust  company
  shall  elect to require that thirty or more days' notice be given before
  time deposits  payable  only  on  presentation  of  a  passbook  may  be
  withdrawn  the bank or trust company shall upon the day such election is
  made notify the superintendent thereof by telephone or telegraph.


::: 130:restrictions_on_officers_directors_and_employees.html
 
    &#167; 130.  Restrictions  on  officers,  directors  and  employees.  1. No
  officer, director, clerk or other employee of any bank or trust company,
  and no person in any way interested or concerned in  the  management  of
  its  affairs,  shall, acting on his own behalf or for any partnership or
  unincorporated  association  of  which  he  is  a  member  or  for   any
  corporation,  of  which  he  owns  or controls a majority of the capital
  stock, discount, or directly or indirectly make any loan upon, any  note
  or  other  evidence of debt which he shall know to have been offered for
  discount to such bank or trust company, and to have been refused.  Every
  person  violating  the  provisions  of  this subdivision shall, for each
  offense, forfeit to the people of the state twice the amount of the loan
  which he shall have made.
    2. No officer, director, clerk or other employee of any bank or  trust
  company  shall, directly or indirectly, purchase or be interested in the
  purchase of any promissory note or other evidence of debt issued  by  it
  on  terms  more  favorable  than  those available to the general public,
  provided, however, that every director,  and  every  officer,  clerk  or
  other  employee  who is a stockholder of such bank or trust company, may
  purchase promissory notes or other evidences of debt issued by it in the
  same ratio as to amount and on the same terms as any other stockholder.
    3. (a) No executive officer of a bank  or  trust  company  may  be  an
  executive officer, director or trustee of another bank or trust company,
  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  national bank, federal
  savings bank or federal savings association,  the  principal  office  of
  which  institution  is  located  in  this state, bank holding company or
  foreign banking corporation maintaining a branch in this  state,  unless
  permission  therefor has been granted by the superintendent of financial
  services  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph   (b)   of   this
  subdivision, except that an executive officer of a bank or trust company
  which  is a subsidiary of a bank holding company may be (i) an executive
  officer and (ii) a director of the bank holding company and  of  one  or
  more  banking  institutions  which are subsidiaries of such bank holding
  company.
    (b) The superintendent of financial services shall have the  power  to
  determine by regulation who shall be considered, under the provisions of
  this  subdivision,  to  be  an  executive  officer,  and by a general or
  specific regulation, upon a three-fifths vote of  all  its  members,  to
  grant  permission  to an executive officer of a bank or trust company to
  be an executive officer,  director  or  trustee  or  both  an  executive
  officer  and  director  or  a  trustee of another bank or trust company,
  savings bank, or savings and loan association,  national  bank,  federal
  savings  bank  or  federal  savings association, the principal office of
  which is located in this state, bank holding company, or foreign banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state. Such permission  may  be
  granted  only  if  in  the  judgment  of the superintendent of financial
  services such service by the executive officer will be  consistent  with
  the  policy  of the state of New York as declared in section ten of this
  chapter. The superintendent of financial services shall have  the  power
  to  revoke  such  permission  by  a  like  vote whenever it finds, after
  reasonable notice and an  opportunity  to  be  heard,  that  the  public
  interest requires such revocation.
    (c)  For  the  purposes  of  this subdivision, the terms "subsidiary",
  "banking institution" and "bank holding company" shall each be given the
  same meaning as is contained in their respective definition  in  section
  one hundred forty-one of this chapter, except that the definition of the
  term  "banking  institution"  is  modified  to  include a national bank,
  federal savings bank  or  federal  savings  association,  the  principal
  office  of  which  institution  is  in this state, and a foreign banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    (d)  All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this chapter on
  executive officers and directors of  banks  and  trust  companies  shall
  continue in effect.
    5.  Every  director of a bank or trust company who is obligated on any
  loan or other extension of credit made by such bank or trust company  to
  such  director  or  to any other individual, partnership, unincorporated
  association or corporation, shall file  a  statement  of  his  financial
  condition with such bank or trust company at least once in each year and
  at  such other times as the superintendent may require. This subdivision
  shall not apply to directors whose obligations are secured by collateral
  having an ascertained market value of at least fifteen per  centum  more
  than  the  amount of such obligations. The superintendent shall have the
  power to determine by regulation what shall  be  considered,  under  the
  provisions of this subdivision, to be a loan or an extension of credit.
    6.  If  any officer of a bank or trust company becomes indebted to any
  domestic or foreign banking organization, other than the bank  or  trust
  company  of  which  he is an officer, or becomes indebted to any banking
  institution organized under the laws of  the  United  States,  he  shall
  within  ten  calendar  days  after he becomes so indebted make a written
  report to the board of directors of the bank or trust company  of  which
  he  is  an  officer,  stating  the  date  and amount of any such loan or
  indebtedness, and the security therefor. In addition  to  the  foregoing
  reports  he  shall  render written reports of such other indebtedness as
  the board of directors of the bank or trust company  may  by  resolution
  require  of  its  officers.  The  superintendent shall have the power to
  determine by regulation who shall be  considered  an  officer  and  what
  shall  be considered a loan or indebtedness under the provisions of this
  subdivision.
    The provision of this subdivision  shall  not  be  applicable  if  the
  amount  of  the  indebtedness  does  not exceed an amount which shall be
  determined by the superintendent.
    7. (a) Every person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner
  of more than ten per centum of any class of any  equity  security  of  a
  bank  or  trust  company  or who is a director or officer thereof, shall
  file, within ten days following (i) the effective date of this  section,
  or  (ii) the date on which he becomes such beneficial owner, director or
  officer, whichever is later, a statement with the superintendent of  the
  amount  of  all equity securities of such bank or trust company of which
  he is the beneficial owner, and within ten days after the close of  each
  calendar  month  thereafter,  if  there  has  been  any  change  in such
  ownership during such  month,  shall  file  with  the  superintendent  a
  statement  indicating  his  ownership at the close of the calendar month
  and such changes in such ownership as have occurred during such calendar
  month.
    (b) Any such beneficial owner, director or officer of a bank or  trust
  company shall not be subject to the requirements of this section if
    (1)  he  is required by section sixteen (a) of the securities exchange
  act of nineteen hundred thirty-four, as amended, to file with the  board
  of governors of the federal reserve system in accordance with regulation
  f  of  such  board  or with the federal deposit insurance corporation in
  accordance with part three hundred thirty-five of title  twelve  of  the
  regulations  of  such corporation, a statement as to his stock ownership
  and he files with the superintendent at his New York  city  office  four
  copies of each such statement filed with such board or corporation, or
    (2)  he  is  such  beneficial  owner, director or officer of a bank or
  trust company, all of the voting securities  of  which,  excepting  only
  directors'  qualifying  shares, are owned, controlled or held with power
  to vote by a bank holding company as  defined  in  section  one  hundred
  forty-one of this chapter or by a single corporation, or
    (3)  he  is  such  beneficial  owner, director or officer of a bank or
  trust company, all of the voting securities  of  which,  excepting  only
  directors'  qualifying  shares, are owned, controlled or held with power
  to vote by one or more banks organized  under  the  laws  of  a  foreign
  country, or
    (4)  he  is  such  beneficial  owner,  director  or officer of a trust
  company, all of the capital stock of which is owned by  twenty  or  more
  savings banks chartered by the state of New York.
    (c)  The  superintendent shall have power to adopt such regulations as
  the superintendent shall deem  necessary  or  proper  to  implement  the
  provisions of this section.


::: 131:prohibitions_against_encroachments_upon_certain_powers_of_banks_and_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 131. Prohibitions against encroachments upon certain powers of banks
  and trust companies. 1. No person unauthorized by law shall subscribe to
  or  become  a member of, or be in any way interested in any association,
  institution or company formed or to be formed for the purpose of issuing
  notes or other evidences of debt to be loaned or put in  circulation  as
  money;  nor  shall  any  such  person  subscribe to or become in any way
  interested in any bank or trust company or fund created or to be created
  for the like purposes or either of them.  No  corporation,  domestic  or
  foreign,  other  than  a national bank or a federal reserve bank, unless
  expressly authorized by the laws of this state, shall employ any part of
  its property, or be in any way interested in any  fund  which  shall  be
  employed  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  deposits,  making discounts,
  receiving  for  transmission  or  transmitting  money  in   any   manner
  whatsoever,  or issuing notes or other evidences of debt to be loaned or
  put into circulation as money, except that a small  business  investment
  company as defined in and operating pursuant to the provisions of an act
  of congress entitled "Small Business Investment Act of 1958," may act as
  depository  or  fiscal  agent of the United States when so designated by
  the secretary of the treasury without violating the provisions  of  this
  section,  except  that a corporation duly licensed by the superintendent
  under article thirteen-B of this chapter or therein  expressly  excepted
  from  the  application  of  said  article  may engage in the business of
  selling or issuing  checks  or  the  business  of  receiving  money  for
  transmission  or  transmitting  the  same and except that services of an
  agent  or  representative  may  be  performed  in  connection  with  the
  obligations  of issuers where each such marketable obligation has a face
  value of not less than one hundred thousand dollars. The discounting  of
  bills,  notes or evidences of debt by a corporation organized solely for
  the purpose of enabling producers of farm, dairy, horticultural or other
  agricultural products or cooperative corporations of such  producers  to
  avail  themselves of the provisions of an act of congress approved March
  fourth, nineteen hundred and twenty-three,  known  as  the  agricultural
  credits  act of nineteen hundred and twenty-three, same being subchapter
  three of chapter seven of title twelve of the code of laws of the United
  States  as  adopted  by  congress  January   third,   nineteen   hundred
  thirty-five, and amendments thereto, where such discounting is solely in
  connection with the rediscount of such bills, notes or evidences of debt
  under  the  provisions  of  said  act of congress shall not be deemed or
  construed to be a  form  of  banking,  nor  shall  the  making  of  such
  discounts  be  deemed  to  violate  any  provisions of law pertaining to
  banking. Except as  otherwise  provided  in  article  twelve-D  of  this
  chapter,  engaging  in  the  business  of loaning money in this state on
  bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness,  secured  by  deeds  of
  trust  or mortgages upon real property or personal property situated in,
  upon or appurtenant thereto, and/or purchasing of or otherwise acquiring
  existing bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, deeds of trust
  or mortgages of or upon such properties, or any  interest  therein,  and
  the   holding  of  the  same,  or  the  endorsing,  selling,  assigning,
  transferring or disposing of the  same  to  another  corporation,  by  a
  domestic  business  corporation,  or  by  a foreign corporation which is
  authorized to transact business in this state, shall not  be  deemed  or
  construed to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The purchase
  or  other  acquisition on original issue or subsequent transfer for less
  than the principal amount thereof or otherwise  at  a  discount  of  any
  evidences  of indebtedness or other obligations for the payment of money
  shall not by reason of such discount be or be deemed to be  a  violation
  of the provisions of this section.
    2.  No person, association of persons or corporation, unless expressly
  authorized by law, shall keep any office for the purpose of issuing  any
  evidences  of  debt,  to  be  loaned or put in circulation as money; nor
  shall they issue any bills or promissory notes  or  other  evidences  of
  debt  for  the purpose of loaning them or putting them in circulation as
  money, unless thereto specially authorized by law.
    3. Except as otherwise provided in article five or article  five-C  of
  this  chapter  or subdivision four of this section, no corporation other
  than a trust company shall have or exercise in this state the  power  of
  receiving  deposits of money, securities or other personal property from
  any person or corporation in trust, or have or exercise  in  this  state
  any  of  the powers specified in section one hundred of this article, or
  have or maintain an office in this state  for  the  transaction  of,  or
  transact,  directly  or indirectly, any such or similar business, except
  that a federal  reserve  bank  may  exercise  the  powers  conferred  by
  subdivision  one  of  such section if authorized so to do by the laws of
  the United States and any domestic corporation legally exercising any of
  the powers conferred by such subdivision at  the  time  this  act  takes
  effect  may  continue  to  exercise  such  powers, and a foreign banking
  corporation or trust company incorporated  under  the  laws  of  another
  state,  which  by  the  law of the state of its incorporation may act as
  trustee, guardian, executor, administrator, or in  any  other  fiduciary
  capacity  under  any last will and testament or codicil thereto or other
  testamentary writing or under any deed of trust  inter  vivos  or  other
  written  instrument  establishing  a trust, or by the appointment of any
  court of said state, may  act  in  this  state  in  any  such  fiduciary
  capacity,  provided  similar  domestic corporations which have the power
  under the law of  this  state  to  act  herein  in  any  such  fiduciary
  capacity,  are  permitted to act in like fiduciary capacity in the state
  where such foreign corporation has its domicile, provided that  if  such
  foreign  corporation  proposes  to act in any fiduciary capacity in this
  state and to do  so  is  required  to  file  its  qualification  in  the
  surrogate's  court  of  this  state,  it shall file in the office of the
  clerk of the surrogate's court of the county in  which  application  for
  such  appointment  is pending (a) a duly executed instrument in writing,
  by its terms of indefinite duration  and  irrevocable,  appointing  such
  clerk  and his or her successors its true and lawful attorney, upon whom
  all  process  in  any  action  or  proceeding  against  such  fiduciary,
  affecting or relating to the state, trust or fund represented or held by
  such  fiduciary or the acts of defaults of such corporation in reference
  to such estate, trust or fund may be served  with  the  same  force  and
  effect as if it were a domestic corporation and had been lawfully served
  with  process  within the state, and (b) a copy of its charter certified
  by its secretary under its corporate seal, together with the post office
  address of its principal office; provided further that if  such  foreign
  corporation  proposes  to  act  in  any  other fiduciary capacity in the
  state, it shall file in the office of  the  superintendent  (a)  a  duly
  executed  instrument in writing, by its terms of indefinite duration and
  irrevocable, appointing the superintendent and his or her successors its
  true and lawful attorney,  upon  whom  all  process  in  any  action  or
  proceeding  against  such fiduciary affecting or relating to the estate,
  trust or fund held or represented by  such  fiduciary  or  the  acts  or
  defaults  of such corporation in reference to such estate, trust or fund
  may be served with the same force and effect as if it  were  a  domestic
  corporation  and had been lawfully served with process within the state,
  (b) a written certificate of designation, which may be changed from time
  to time thereafter by the filing of a new  certificate  of  designation,
  specifying  the  name and address of the officer, agent, or other person
  to whom such process shall be forwarded by the superintendent, and (c) a
  copy of its charter certified by its secretary under its corporate seal,
  together with the post office address of its principal office.
    4.  (a) Except as otherwise provided in article five or article five-C
  of this chapter, no foreign corporation, having authority to act in this
  state as trustee, guardian, executor, administrator,  or  in  any  other
  fiduciary  capacity shall establish or maintain, directly or indirectly,
  any branch office or agency in this state.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,  a  bank  or
  trust  company  incorporated  under  the laws of another state, which is
  authorized by  its  charter  and  by  the  laws  of  the  state  of  its
  incorporation  to  exercise  in  such  state any or all of the fiduciary
  powers that trust companies are authorized to  exercise  in  this  state
  pursuant  to  sections  one  hundred,  one hundred-a, one hundred-b, one
  hundred-c and one hundred-d of this article, may establish and  maintain
  a  trust  office  in this state for purposes of exercising any or all of
  the fiduciary powers  authorized  by  the  laws  of  the  state  of  its
  incorporation;  provided, however, that (i) such trust office is not its
  principal  office;  (ii)  such  exercise  does  not  exceed  the  powers
  authorized under sections one hundred, one hundred-a, one hundred-b, one
  hundred-c  and  one hundred-d of this article; and (iii) a bank or trust
  company organized under  the  laws  of  this  state  and  authorized  to
  exercise  any  or  all  fiduciary powers under sections one hundred, one
  hundred-a, one hundred-b,  one  hundred-c  and  one  hundred-d  of  this
  article   is   permitted  to  establish  a  trust  office  and  exercise
  substantially similar fiduciary powers on substantially the  same  basis
  as  permitted  an  out-of-state  state bank or trust company pursuant to
  this subdivision, in the state where such  out-of-state  state  bank  or
  trust  company  is  so  incorporated.  A  trust  office  established  or
  maintained by such an out-of-state state bank or trust company  pursuant
  to  this  subdivision  shall  not  be  considered  to be a branch office
  pursuant to any other provisions of this chapter.
    (c) An out-of-state state bank or trust company seeking  to  establish
  and maintain a trust office or open any additional trust offices in this
  state shall file a notice with the superintendent in the form prescribed
  by  the  superintendent describing the proposed activities of the office
  and such other information as  the  superintendent  shall  request.  The
  trust office may commence operation thirty days after the superintendent
  receives   such   notice,   unless   the   superintendent  notifies  the
  out-of-state state bank or trust company in  writing  within  such  time
  period  that  such  office may not commence operation or that additional
  information or time is required for the superintendent to consider  such
  notice.
    (d)  Such  out-of-state  state bank or trust company may establish and
  maintain  additional  trust  offices  in  this  state  pursuant  to  and
  consistent  with  the  provisions of this subdivision, provided that the
  superintendent finds that the establishment and maintenance of  any  and
  all  trust  offices  by such out-of-state state bank or trust company is
  and continues  to  be  consistent  with  the  goals  set  forth  in  the
  declaration  of  policy  contained  in  section ten of this chapter. The
  superintendent shall have the power at any time in his or her discretion
  to examine any trust office established pursuant to this section to  the
  same  extent  as  is  provided  for in the case of banking organizations
  pursuant to  the  provisions  of  this  chapter.  If  any  such  foreign
  corporation  or  out-of-state  state bank or trust company violates this
  provision, such foreign corporation or out-of-state state bank or  trust
  company  shall  not thereafter be appointed or act in any such fiduciary
  capacity in this state. The validity of any mortgage heretofore given by
  a foreign corporation to a trust company doing business within a foreign
  domicile of such mortgagor to secure the payment of an  issue  of  bonds
  shall  not be affected by any of the provisions of this section and such
  mortgage  shall be enforceable in accordance with the laws of this state
  against property covered thereby within the state of New York.
    5. Any out-of-state  state  bank  or  trust  company  subject  to  the
  provision  of subdivision three or four of this section may be either in
  corporate form or organized as a limited liability company.
    6. Every person, and every corporation, director,  agent,  officer  or
  member  thereof,  who  shall  violate  any  provision  of  this section,
  directly or indirectly or assent to such  violation,  shall  forfeit  an
  amount  as  determined pursuant to section forty-four of this chapter to
  the people of the state.


::: 132:use_of_sign_or_words_indicating_bank_or_trust_company_by_unauthorized_persons_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 132.  Use  of  sign,  or  words, indicating bank or trust company by
  unauthorized persons prohibited.
    No person, except a national  bank,  a  federal  reserve  bank,  or  a
  corporation  duly  authorized by the superintendent to transact business
  in this state, shall make use of any office sign at the place where such
  business is transacted having thereon any artificial or corporate  name,
  or  other  words  indicating  that  such place or office is the place of
  business or office of a bank or trust company; nor shall any such person
  or persons make use of or circulate any  letterheads,  billheads,  blank
  forms,  notes,  receipts,  certificates,  circulars,  or  any written or
  printed or partly written and  partly  printed  paper  whatever,  having
  thereon  any  artificial  or  corporate  name,  or  other word or words,
  indicating that such business  is  the  business  of  a  bank  or  trust
  company; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be deemed
  to  prevent  a  bank holding company from using any corporate name it is
  duly authorized to use under subdivision (b) of  section  three  hundred
  two of the business corporation law.


::: 133:use_of_banking_institution_name.html
 
    &#167;  133.  Use  of  banking institution name. 1. No person shall use the
  name of a banking institution when advertising, marketing or  soliciting
  business which is likely to induce, directly or indirectly, the purchase
  of goods or services, if the reference to such institution is:
    (a) without the consent of the banking institution; and
    (b)  which  would  cause  a  reasonable  person  to  conclude that the
  advertising or marketing  material  or  solicitation  either  originated
  from,  or  is  endorsed  by  or is any other way the responsibility of a
  banking institution.
    2. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of or  reference  to
  the  name of a banking institution in advertising or marketing materials
  or solicitations, if the use or reference to such institution  does  not
  deceive or confuse a reasonable person regarding whether the advertising
  or  marketing  material  or  solicitation  (a)  originated  from, (b) is
  endorsed by or (c) is in any other way the responsibility of  a  banking
  institution.
    3.  The  department  is  authorized  to enforce the provisions of this
  section.
    4. For purposes of this section, "banking institution" shall mean  any
  state  or federally chartered bank, trust company, savings bank, savings
  and loan association or credit union which has an office  or  branch  in
  this  state,  or  a  private  banker, safe deposit company or investment
  company.


::: 134:repayment_of_deposits_standing_in_the_names_of_minors_trustees_or_joint_depositors_repayment_where_adverse_claim_is_asserted_interpleader_in_certai.html
 
    &#167; 134. Repayment of deposits standing in the names of minors, trustees
  or   joint  depositors;  repayment  where  adverse  claim  is  asserted;
  interpleader in certain actions; effect of claims or advices originating
  in, and statutes, rules or regulations purporting  to  be  in  force  in
  occupied  territories. 1.   Any minor may endorse a check payable to his
  order for the purpose of depositing the proceeds in  a  deposit  in  his
  name  and when any deposit shall be made by or in the name of any minor,
  the same shall be held for the  exclusive  right  and  benefit  of  such
  minor,  and  free  from the control or lien of all other persons, except
  creditors, and shall be paid, together with the interest thereon to  the
  person  or  upon  the order by check or otherwise of the person in whose
  name the deposit shall stand, and the receipt, acquittance or  order  of
  payment  of  such  minor  shall  be  a  valid and sufficient release and
  discharge for such deposit or any part thereof  to  the  bank  or  trust
  company.
    4.  A bank or trust company need not recognize or give any effect to a
  claim of authority to order the payment or  delivery  of  any  funds  or
  other property standing on its books to the credit of, or held by it for
  the  account  of, any person, corporation, unincorporated association or
  partnership, which claim conflicts with a claim of  authority  of  which
  the bank or trust company had prior notice, unless the person or persons
  asserting  such  subsequent  claim  shall  procure  a restraining order,
  injunction or other appropriate  process  against  said  bank  or  trust
  company from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States, or,
  in  lieu  thereof, with the consent of said bank or trust company, shall
  execute to said bank  or  trust  company,  in  form  and  with  sureties
  acceptable  to  it,  a  bond, indemnifying it for any and all liability,
  loss, damage, costs and expenses for or on account  of  any  payment  or
  delivery  of  such  property  by it pursuant to such subsequent claim of
  authority or for or on account of the dishonor of  any  check  or  other
  order of any person or persons asserting the claim of authority of which
  such bank or trust company already had notice at the time the subsequent
  conflicting  claim  of  authority  is  asserted by the person or persons
  furnishing such bond.
    5. Notice to any bank or trust company of  an  adverse  claim  to  any
  property, or to a deposit of cash or securities standing on its books to
  the  credit  of,  or  held  for  the account of, any person shall not be
  effectual to cause said bank or trust company to recognize said  adverse
  claimant  unless  said  adverse  claimant  shall  also  either procure a
  restraining order, injunction or other appropriate process against  said
  bank  or  trust  company  from  a court of competent jurisdiction in the
  United States in a cause therein instituted by him wherein the person to
  whose credit the deposit stands, or for whose account  the  property  or
  deposit  is  held,  or his executor or administrator is made a party and
  served with summons, or shall execute to said bank or trust company,  in
  form  and  with sureties acceptable to it a bond, indemnifying said bank
  or trust company from any and all liability,  loss,  damage,  costs  and
  expenses,  for  and on account of the payment of or delivery pursuant to
  such adverse claim or the dishonor of the check or other  order  of  the
  person  to  whose credit the deposit stands on the books of said bank or
  trust company or for whose account the property or deposit  is  held  by
  said bank or trust company.
    6. (a) In all actions against any bank or trust company to recover for
  moneys  on  deposit  therewith,  if  there  be any person or persons not
  parties to the action, who claim the same fund, the court in  which  the
  action  is  pending, may, on the petition of such bank or trust company,
  and upon eight days' notice to the plaintiff  and  such  claimants,  and
  without  proof as to the merits of the claim, make an order amending the
  proceedings in the action by making  such  claimants  parties  defendant
  thereto;  and  the court shall thereupon proceed to determine the rights
  and interests of the several parties to the action in and to such funds.
  The  remedy  provided  in  this  section shall be in addition to and not
  exclusive of that provided in any other interpleader provision.
    (b) The funds on deposit which are the subject of such an  action  may
  remain with such bank or trust company to the credit of the action until
  final  judgment  therein,  and be entitled to the same interest as other
  deposits of the same class, and shall be paid  by  such  bank  or  trust
  company  in  accordance  with  the  final  judgment of the court; or the
  deposit in controversy may  be  paid  into  court  to  await  the  final
  determination  of the action, and when the deposit is so paid into court
  such bank or trust company shall be struck out as a party to the action,
  and its liability for such deposit shall cease.
    (c) The costs in all actions  against  a  bank  or  trust  company  to
  recover  deposits  shall  be  in the discretion of the court, and may be
  charged upon the fund affected by the action.
    7. (a) A bank or trust company need not recognize or give  any  effect
  to  (1)  any  claim  to a deposit of cash, securities, or other property
  standing on its books to the credit of, or held by it  for  the  account
  of,  any  corporation,  firm or association in occupied territory or (2)
  any advice, statute, rule or regulation purporting to cancel or to  give
  notice  of  the  cancellation of the authority of any person at the time
  appearing on the books of such bank or trust company  as  authorized  to
  withdraw  or otherwise dispose of cash, securities, or other property of
  such corporation, firm or association, unless such bank or trust company
  is required so to do by appropriate process procured  against  it  in  a
  court  of competent jurisdiction in the United States in a cause therein
  instituted by or in the name of such corporation, firm  or  association,
  or unless the person making such claim or giving such advice or invoking
  such  statute,  rule or regulation, as the case may be, shall execute to
  such bank or trust company, in form and with sureties acceptable to  it,
  a  bond  indemnifying it from any and all liability, loss, damage, costs
  and expenses for and on account of recognizing or giving any  effect  to
  such claim, advice, statute, rule or regulation.
    (b)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision  (1) the term "occupied
  territory"  shall  mean  territory  occupied  by  a  dominant  authority
  asserting  governmental,  military  or police powers of any kind in such
  territory, but not recognized by  the  United  States  as  the  de  jure
  government  of  such  territory,  and (2) the term "corporation, firm or
  association in occupied territory" shall mean  a  corporation,  firm  or
  association  which  has,  or at any time has had, a place of business in
  territory which has at any time been occupied territory.
    (c) The foregoing provisions of this subdivision  shall  be  effective
  only in cases where (1) such claim or advice purports or appears to have
  been  sent  from or is reasonably believed to have been sent pursuant to
  orders originating in, such occupied  territory  during  the  period  of
  occupation,  or  (2)  such  statute,  rule or regulation appears to have
  emanated from such dominant authority and purports to be or to have been
  in force in such occupied territory during the period of occupation.
    (d) The foregoing  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  apply  to
  claims,  advices,  statutes, rules or regulations made, given or invoked
  either prior to, or on or subsequent to the effective date of this act.
    9. Deposits by custodian for a minor under part six of  article  seven
  of  the  estates,  powers  and  trusts  law. When any deposit of cash or
  securities shall be made by a person purporting to act as custodian  for
  a  minor  under  part  six  of  article seven of the estates, powers and
  trusts law or under a similar law of another state, the deposit together
  with any interest or dividends credited thereon may be paid or delivered
  to or upon the order of such person, or his successor as  custodian,  or
  to  a  minor  upon  the  minor's  attaining  either  eighteen  years  or
  twenty-one  years,  as  provided  in accordance with part six of article
  seven of the estates, powers and trusts law, if no custodian  is  acting
  at  the  time  of  such payment or delivery, and any receipt or order of
  such person, successor or minor shall be valid  and  sufficient  release
  and  discharge of the depositary for any payment or delivery so made. No
  depositary dealing with a person purporting to act as a custodian for  a
  minor  under  said  article  shall  be  bound  to inquire into any facts
  bearing upon the designation of such person as  such  custodian  or  the
  propriety  of or authority for any act of such person under said article
  or otherwise or the  age  of  the  person  designated  as  a  minor.  No
  depositary  shall  be  liable  for  any  act  performed  pursuant to the
  instruction or direction of any person purporting to  act  as  custodian
  under  said article unless the depositary has actual knowledge that such
  act, or the instruction or direction therefor, constitutes a  breach  of
  such  person's  obligations  as such custodian, or unless the depositary
  performs such act with knowledge of such facts that acting  pursuant  to
  such instruction or direction amounts to bad faith.


::: 136-a:purchase_of_assets_of_national_banking_association_by_bank_or_trust_company.html
 
    &#167; 136-a. Purchase of assets of national banking association by bank or
  trust  company. 1. A state bank or trust company may acquire, whether by
  purchase or otherwise, other than by merger, all or a  substantial  part
  of  the  assets  of  a  national  banking association, provided that the
  action taken complies with federal law.
    2. In the case of each such acquisition, a written plan providing  for
  the  acquisition  by  the  bank  or  trust  company of the assets of the
  national banking association shall be submitted, in  duplicate,  by  the
  bank  or trust company to the superintendent. Such plan shall be in form
  satisfactory to the superintendent, shall specify the  selling  and  the
  acquiring  corporation,  and shall prescribe the terms and conditions of
  the acquisition and the mode of carrying it into effect.
    At the time of submission for action  by  the  superintendent  of  the
  written   plan  of  acquisition  of  assets,  an  investigation  fee  as
  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be  paid
  to the superintendent.
    3.  With  such  plan  of  acquisition  of  assets  there shall also be
  submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent the following: (a) by the
  national banking association, a certificate of the president,  secretary
  or cashier of such association certifying that all steps have been taken
  which  are necessary under federal law to the sale of its assets; (b) by
  the bank or trust  company,  if  the  assets  of  the  national  banking
  association  exceed  ten  per  centum of the assets of the bank or trust
  company, a certificate of the president, secretary or cashier certifying
  that such plan has been approved  by  the  board  of  directors  of  his
  corporation by a majority vote of all the members thereof, and that such
  plan was thereafter submitted to the stockholders of such corporation at
  a  meeting thereof held upon notice of at least fifteen days, specifying
  the time, place, and object  of  such  meeting  and  addressed  to  each
  stockholder  at  the address appearing upon the books of the corporation
  and published at least once a week  for  two  successive  weeks  in  one
  newspaper  in  the  county  in  which  the bank or trust company has its
  principal place of business and that such plan has been approved at such
  meeting by the vote of stockholders owning at least two-thirds in amount
  of the stock of such corporation.
    4. Nothing contained in this section one hundred thirty-six-a shall be
  construed to prohibit any other purchase of assets  which  is  otherwise
  permitted by applicable law.


::: 136-b:approval_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 136-b.  Approval of superintendent. The superintendent shall approve
  or disapprove of a proposed merger as authorized by section one  hundred
  thirty-six  of  this  article  or  a  proposed  acquisition  of all or a
  substantial part of the assets of  a  national  banking  association  as
  authorized  by  section one hundred thirty-six-a of this article, as the
  case may be, within one hundred twenty days after the submission of  the
  proposed  plan  thereof  to  him  or  her.  In determining whether to so
  approve, the  superintendent  shall  take  into  consideration  (i)  the
  declaration  of  policy  contained  in section ten of this chapter, (ii)
  whether the effect of such merger or  acquisition  shall  be  either  to
  expand  the  size  or  extent  of the resulting or acquiring institution
  beyond limits  consistent  with  adequate  and  sound  banking  and  the
  preservation  thereof  or  result  in  a  concentration of assets beyond
  limits consistent with effective competition, (iii) whether such  merger
  or  acquisition  may  result in such a lessening of competition as to be
  injurious to the interests of the public or  tend  toward  monopoly  and
  (iv)  primarily,  the  public  interest  and  the  needs and convenience
  thereof. If the superintendent shall approve  such  proposed  merger  or
  acquisition,  he  or  she  shall  file  the  plan,  together  with  such
  certificates and the original of the approval of the superintendent,  in
  the  office  of  the  superintendent,  and,  in  the  case  of merger, a
  duplicate of the plan,  together  with  a  duplicate  of  each  of  such
  certificates  and a duplicate of the superintendent's approval, shall be
  filed in the office of the clerk of the county in  which  the  principal
  office  of the receiving corporation is located. Upon such filing in the
  office of the superintendent, the merger  or  acquisition  shall  become
  effective,  unless a later date is specified in the plan, in which event
  the merger or acquisition shall become effective upon such later date.


::: 136-c:effect_of_merger_or_conversion_of_national_banking_association_into_state_bank.html
 
    &#167; 136-c.   Effect   of   merger  or  conversion  of  national  banking
  association into state bank. 1. At the time when a merger or  conversion
  under  sections  one  hundred thirty-six and one hundred thirty-six-b of
  this chapter becomes effective.
    (a) the resulting state bank shall be considered the same business and
  corporate entity as the national banking  association,  although  as  to
  rights, powers and duties, the resulting bank is a state bank;
    (b) all of the property, rights, powers and franchises of the national
  banking  association  shall  vest  in  the  resulting state bank and the
  resulting state bank shall be subject to and be deemed to  have  assumed
  all  of  the  debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of the national
  banking association and to have succeeded to all of  its  relationships,
  fiduciary  or  otherwise,  as  fully  and  to the same extent as if such
  property, rights, powers, franchises, debts,  liabilities,  obligations,
  duties  and  relationships  had  been  originally  acquired, incurred or
  entered into by the resulting state bank; provided,  however,  that  the
  resulting  state  bank  shall  not,  through  such conversion or merger,
  acquire power to engage in  any  business  or  to  exercise  any  right,
  privilege  or franchise which is not conferred by the provisions of this
  chapter upon such resulting state bank;
    (c) any reference to the national banking association in any contract,
  will or document, whether executed or taking effect before or after  the
  conversion  or  merger, shall be considered a reference to the resulting
  state bank  if  not  inconsistent  with  the  other  provisions  of  the
  contract, will or document;
    (d)  a  pending  action  or  other  judicial  proceeding  to which the
  national banking association is a party, shall not  be  deemed  to  have
  abated  or  to  have discontinued by reason of the conversion or merger,
  but may be prosecuted to final judgment, order or  decree  in  the  same
  manner  as  if  the  conversion  or  merger  had  not  been made; or the
  resulting state bank may be substituted as a party  to  such  action  or
  proceeding,  and  any  judgment,  order or decree may be rendered for or
  against it that might have been rendered for  or  against  the  national
  banking association if the conversion or merger had not occurred.
    2.  As  used  in  this  section, the term "state bank" means a bank or
  trust company.


::: 136:change_of_national_banking_association_into_state_bank_by_conversion_or_merger.html
 
    &#167; 136.  Change  of  national  banking  association  into state bank by
  conversion or merger. 1. A national banking association may convert into
  or merge with a state bank under a  state  charter,  provided  that  the
  action  taken  complies with federal law. Each such conversion or merger
  shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
    2. In the case of each conversion, a written plan of conversion  shall
  be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent. Such plan shall be in
  form  satisfactory  to the superintendent, shall prescribe the terms and
  conditions of the conversion and the mode of carrying it into effect and
  shall have annexed thereto and forming a part  thereof  an  organization
  certificate  of  the  state bank which is to result from the conversion.
  Such organization certificate shall be in the form prescribed by section
  four thousand one of this chapter with such variations, if any, as shall
  be satisfactory to the superintendent.  With  such  plan  of  conversion
  there  shall  be  submitted,  in  duplicate,  to  the  superintendent  a
  certificate of the president,  secretary  or  cashier  of  the  national
  banking  association certifying that all steps have been taken which are
  necessary under federal law to the consummation of the  conversion.  The
  superintendent  shall  approve  or  disapprove  such  plan of conversion
  within ninety days of such submission thereof to  him  or  her.  If  the
  superintendent  shall  approve  such  plan,  he  or  she  shall file one
  duplicate thereof, together  with  one  duplicate  of  such  certificate
  submitted   therewith   and   the   original  of  the  approval  of  the
  superintendent, in the office  of  the  superintendent,  and  the  other
  duplicate  of  such  plan, together with a duplicate of such certificate
  and a duplicate of the superintendent's approval, shall be filed in  the
  office  of  the clerk of the county in which the principal office of the
  state bank is to be located. Upon such  filing  in  the  office  of  the
  superintendent,  the  conversion  shall become effective, unless a later
  date is specified in the plan,  in  which  event  the  conversion  shall
  become  effective upon such later date, and the organization certificate
  attached to such plan shall thereafter be the  organization  certificate
  of the state bank for all purposes.
    3.  In  the  case  of  each  merger, a written plan of merger shall be
  submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent. Such plan  shall  be  in
  form  satisfactory  to  the superintendent and shall prescribe the terms
  and conditions of the merger and the mode of carrying  it  into  effect.
  Such  plan  may  provide  the  name  to  be  borne by the state bank, as
  receiving corporation, if such name is to be changed. Such plan may also
  name the persons who shall constitute the first board  of  directors  of
  the  state  bank after the merger shall have been accomplished, provided
  that  the  number  and  qualifications  of  such  persons  shall  be  in
  accordance  with  the  provisions of this chapter relating to the number
  and qualifications of directors of  a  state  bank;  or  such  plan  may
  provide  for a meeting of the stockholders to elect a board of directors
  within sixty  days  after  such  merger,  and  may  make  provision  for
  conducting  the  affairs  of the state bank meanwhile. With such plan of
  merger there shall be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent the
  following: (a) by the national banking association, a certificate of the
  president, secretary or cashier of such association certifying that  all
  steps  have  been  taken  which  are  necessary under federal law to the
  consummation of the merger; (b) by the state bank, a certificate of  the
  president,  secretary or cashier certifying that such plan of merger has
  been approved by the board of directors of the state bank by a  majority
  vote  of  all  the members thereof, that such plan has been submitted to
  the stockholders of the state bank at a meeting thereof held upon notice
  of at least fifteen days, specifying the time, place and object of  such
  meeting  and addressed to each stockholder at the address appearing upon
  the books of the state bank and published at least once a week  for  two
  successive  weeks in one newspaper in the county in which the state bank
  has its principal place of business, and that such plan  of  merger  has
  been  approved at such meeting by the vote of the stockholders owning at
  least two-thirds in amount of the stock of the state bank,  except  that
  such  certificate submitted by the state bank need not certify that such
  plan was submitted to or approved by vote of  the  stockholders  of  the
  state  bank  if (i) the total assets of the national banking association
  do not exceed ten per centum of the total assets of the state  bank  and
  (ii)  the  plan  of  merger  does  not change the name or the authorized
  shares of capital stock of the state bank or make or require  any  other
  change or amendment for which the approval or consent of stockholders of
  the state bank would be required under provisions of law other than this
  section.
    4.  As  used  in  this  section, the term "state bank" means a bank or
  trust company. For purposes  of  merger  under  this  section  the  term
  "national  banking  association"  means  one  or  more  national banking
  associations.
    5. With the written plan of conversion submitted under subdivision two
  of  this  section,  there  shall  be  paid  to  the  superintendent   an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter, and with the written plan of merger submitted under subdivision
  three of this section there shall  be  paid  to  the  superintendent  an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter.


::: 137:change_of_state_bank_into_national_banking_association_by_conversion_merger_or_consolidation.html
 
    &#167; 137.  Change  of  state  bank  into  national banking association by
  conversion, merger or consolidation. 1. A state bank may, by vote of the
  stockholders owning at least two-thirds in amount of its stock,  convert
  into, or merge or consolidate with, a national banking association under
  the  charter of a national banking association in the manner provided by
  federal law and without approval of any state authority.
    2. The franchise of a state bank as a state bank  shall  automatically
  terminate when its conversion into or its merger or consolidation with a
  national  banking association under a federal charter is consummated and
  the resulting national banking association shall be considered the  same
  business  and corporate entity as the state bank, although as to rights,
  powers and duties the resulting bank is a national banking association.
    3. At the time when such conversion, merger or  consolidation  becomes
  effective
    (a)  all  of  the property, rights, powers and franchises of the state
  bank shall vest in the national banking  association  and  the  national
  banking  association  shall  be subject to and be deemed to have assumed
  all of the debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of the state  bank
  and  to  have  succeeded  to  all  of  its  relationships,  fiduciary or
  otherwise, as fully and to the same extent as if such property,  rights,
  powers,   franchises,   debts,   liabilities,  obligations,  duties  and
  relationships had been originally acquired, incurred or entered into  by
  the  national  banking  association;  provided, however, that nothing in
  this  section  shall  be  deemed  to  authorize  the  national   banking
  association  to  maintain  as  its  own  office  any  office  previously
  maintained by the state bank, and authority, if  any,  to  maintain  any
  such office shall be governed by applicable federal law;
    (b) any reference to the state bank in any contract, will or document,
  whether executed or taking effect before or after the conversion, merger
  or  consolidation,  shall  be  considered  a  reference  to the national
  banking association if not inconsistent with the other provisions of the
  contract, will or document;
    (c) a pending action or other judicial proceeding to which  the  state
  bank  is  a  party,  shall  not  be  deemed  to  have  abated or to have
  discontinued by reason of the conversion, merger or  consolidation,  but
  may  be prosecuted to final judgment, order or decree in the same manner
  as if the conversion, merger or consolidation had not been made; or  the
  national  banking  association  may  be  substituted  as a party to such
  action or proceeding, and any judgment, order or decree may be  rendered
  for or against it that might have been rendered for or against the state
  bank if the conversion, merger or consolidation had not occurred.
    4.  As  used  in  this  section, the term "state bank" means any bank,
  trust company or other banking organization engaged in the  business  of
  receiving  deposits  other  than a mutual savings bank.  For purposes of
  merger or consolidation under this section the  term  "national  banking
  association"  means  one  or more national banking associations, and the
  term "state bank" means one or more state banks.


::: 138:foreign_branches_performance_of_contracts_and_repayment_of_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 138.  Foreign  branches;  performance  of contracts and repayment of
  deposits. 1. Notwithstanding section 1-105  of  the  uniform  commercial
  code,  any  bank or trust company or national bank located in this state
  which in accordance with the provisions of  this  chapter  or  otherwise
  applicable  law shall have opened and occupied a branch office or branch
  offices in any foreign country shall  be  liable  for  contracts  to  be
  performed at such branch office or offices and for deposits to be repaid
  at  such  branch  office  or  offices  to no greater extent than a bank,
  banking corporation or other organization  or  association  for  banking
  purposes  organized  and existing under the laws of such foreign country
  would be liable under its laws. The laws of such foreign country for the
  purpose of this section shall be deemed to include  all  acts,  decrees,
  regulations  and  orders promulgated or enforced by a dominant authority
  asserting governmental, military or police power  of  any  kind  at  the
  place  where  any  such  branch  office  is located, whether or not such
  dominant authority be recognized as a de facto or de jure government.
    2. Notwithstanding section 1-105 of the uniform commercial code, if by
  action of any such dominant authority which is  not  recognized  by  the
  United  States  as  the  de  jure  government  of  the foreign territory
  concerned, any property situated in or any amount to be received in such
  foreign territory and carried as an asset of any branch office  of  such
  bank  or  trust  company  or  national bank in such foreign territory is
  seized, destroyed or cancelled, then the liability of such bank or trust
  company or national  bank  for  any  deposit  theretofore  received  and
  thereafter to be repaid by it, and for any contract theretofore made and
  thereafter  to  be performed by it, at any branch office in such foreign
  territory shall be reduced pro tanto by the proportion  that  the  value
  (as shown by the books or other records of such bank or trust company or
  national  bank at the time of such seizure, destruction or cancellation)
  of such assets bears to the aggregate of all the  deposit  and  contract
  liabilities  of  the  branch  office  or  offices  of such bank or trust
  company or national bank in such foreign territory,  as  shown  at  such
  time  by  the  books  or  other records of such bank or trust company or
  national bank.
    2-a. Notwithstanding the provisions of any law to the contrary, a bank
  or trust company or national bank located in this  state  shall  not  be
  required  to repay any deposit made at a foreign branch of any such bank
  if the branch cannot repay the  deposit  due  to  (i)  an  act  of  war,
  insurrection, or civil strife; or (ii) an action by a foreign government
  or instrumentality, whether de jure or de facto, in the country in which
  the  branch  is  located preventing such repayment, unless such bank has
  expressly  agreed  in  writing  to  repay   the   deposit   under   such
  circumstances.  The  superintendent of financial services may promulgate
  regulations necessary to effectuate the provisions of this  subdivision,
  including  regulations  providing  for  adequate  disclosure  to  retail
  depositors in  the  United  States  of  the  restrictions  on  repayment
  contained  in this subdivision. The provisions of this subdivision shall
  not alter or diminish the liability of a custodian of assets of  a  fund
  under  section  one hundred seventy-eight-a of the retirement and social
  security law.
    3. If any provision of  this  section,  or  the  application  of  such
  provision  to  any  bank,  trust company or national bank, shall be held
  invalid, the remainder of this section,  and  the  application  of  such
  section to banks, trust companies and national banks other than those to
  which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 139:saving_clause.html
 
    &#167; 139.  Saving  clause.  All banks which shall have been authorized by
  the  superintendant  to  exercise  fiduciary  powers  pursuant  to  this
  chapter,  as  from  time  to  time  in  effect,  shall be known as trust
  companies subject to the provisions of this article applicable to  trust
  companies,  but nothing contained in this chapter shall require any such
  bank to change its name to include the term "trust company".  All  trust
  companies  organized under or subject to the provisions of this chapter,
  as from time to time in effect, shall be subject to all  the  provisions
  of this article applicable to trust companies. Notwithstanding any other
  provision or law, a corporation formed under this article to acquire the
  banking  business  previously  done  by  a  partnership  doing  business
  pursuant to this chapter may have as its corporate name the  name  under
  which  such  partnership  did  business,  with the addition of a word or
  words, indicating that it is a corporation.


::: 14-a:rate_of_interest_superintendent_of_financial_services_to_adopt_regulations.html
 
    &#167; 14-a.  Rate  of  interest;  superintendent  of financial services to
  adopt regulations. 1. The maximum  rate  of  interest  provided  for  in
  section 5-501 of the general obligations law shall be sixteen per centum
  per annum.
    2.  The  rate  of  interest  as so prescribed under this section shall
  include as interest any and all amounts paid  or  payable,  directly  or
  indirectly,  by  any  person,  to  or  for  the account of the lender in
  consideration for the making of a loan or forbearance as defined by  the
  superintendent pursuant to subdivision three of this section.
    3.  The  superintendent shall have the power to adopt such regulations
  as the superintendent shall deem necessary or proper  to  implement  the
  provisions  of  this section. The superintendent shall make available to
  the public copies of all regulations adopted pursuant to this section.
    4. Such regulations  as  shall  have  been  adopted  pursuant  to  the
  provisions  of  this  chapter  and  in  effect  immediately prior to the
  effective date of this section, shall continue in effect until such time
  as new regulations shall have been adopted  by  the  superintendent  and
  shall become effective.
    5.  Whenever  reference  is  made in this chapter or in any other law,
  contract or document to  the  rate  of  interest  prescribed  or  to  be
  prescribed  by the superintendent pursuant to this section or any former
  section fourteen-a of this chapter, such reference  shall  be  deemed  a
  reference  to the rate of interest prescribed in subdivision one of this
  section.
    6. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision five of this section,
  the rate  of  interest  charged,  taken  or  received  on  any  loan  or
  forbearance,  which  would have otherwise been subject to the provisions
  of former section fourteen-a of  this  chapter,  made  or  entered  into
  between  the  effective  date  of  this  section  and  the  first day of
  February, nineteen hundred eighty-one pursuant to a commitment which was
  made or entered into prior to the effective date of United States Public
  Law 96-161 and which provides for interest at the prevailing rate at the
  time of closing shall not exceed the rate of eleven and one-quarter  per
  centum per annum.
    7.  Nothing  contained  in  this section nor in any other provision of
  this act whereunder this section is added to the banking  law  shall  be
  deemed  to  prohibit  the  charging of interest at the rates provided or
  permitted by United States Public Laws 96-161, 96-221 and 96-399,  where
  applicable.


::: 14-b:power_of_the_superintendent_of_financial_services_to_prescribe_minimum_rate_of_interest_on_mortgage_escrow_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 14-b. Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe
  minimum   rate  of  interest  on  mortgage  escrow  accounts.    1.  The
  superintendent shall have the power to prescribe, from time to time  but
  not  more  often  than once in every three month period, by regulation a
  minimum rate of, and method or  basis  of  computing,  interest  that  a
  mortgage  investing  institution shall be required to pay on each escrow
  account maintained with respect to a mortgage on a  one  to  six  family
  residence  occupied  by  the  owner  or  on  any  property  owned  by  a
  cooperative apartment corporation, as defined in subdivision  twelve  of
  section  three hundred sixty of the tax law, (as such subdivision was in
  effect on December thirtieth, nineteen hundred sixty),  and  located  in
  this  state,  which  rate  shall  be  greater  than the rate of interest
  required to be  paid  under  section  5-601  or  5-602  of  the  general
  obligations law.
    2.  In  making  such  determination  the superintendent shall consider
  pertinent economic and cost factors including, but not limited  to:  (i)
  current  yields  on  short term investments, (ii) current dividend rates
  paid on regular savings accounts throughout this state, (iii)  currently
  prevailing  interest  rates  on  conventional  and insured or guaranteed
  mortgage loans in this state, (iv) cost factors  in  maintaining  escrow
  accounts  and (v) such other pertinent economic or cost factors that the
  superintendent  shall   deem   to   be   appropriate.   Prior   to   the
  superintendent's  prescription of any such minimum rate of interest, the
  superintendent shall issue a statement  in  writing  setting  forth  the
  economic  and  cost  data  and criteria upon which such determination is
  based. Prior to making such determination, the superintendent may invite
  presentation, by interested persons, of information and data relating to
  economic and cost factors relevant to such minimum rate of interest.
    3.  The  superintendent  may  promulgate  such  regulations   as   the
  superintendent  deems  necessary  and proper to implement and define the
  provisions of this section. The superintendent may prescribe the minimum
  rate of interest from time to time, but not more often than once in  any
  three-month period, and shall provide reasonable notice to the public of
  any  change  in  the  rate  of  interest,  of the effective date of such
  change, which shall be not less than seven days following  the  adoption
  of  such  change  by  the  superintendent, and of any rule or regulation
  adopted pursuant to this subdivision.
    4. In no event shall  interest  be  required  to  be  paid  on  escrow
  accounts  where  (i)  there  is a contract between the mortgagor and the
  mortgage investing  institution,  entered  into  before  the  date  this
  subdivision shall have become a law which contains an express disclaimer
  of  an  obligation  on the part of the mortgage investing institution to
  pay interest on such accounts, or (ii)  the  payment  of  such  interest
  would  violate any federal law or regulation, or (iii) such accounts are
  maintained with a mortgage servicing company,  neither  affiliated  with
  nor  owned  in  whole  or in part by the mortgage investing institution,
  under a written contract, entered into before the date this  subdivision
  shall  have  become  a  law, which contract does not permit the mortgage
  investing institution to earn or receive a return from the investment of
  such accounts.
    5. "Mortgage investing institution" as used in  this  section  and  in
  section  5-601  or  5-602  of the general obligations law shall mean and
  include any bank, trust company, national bank,  savings  bank,  savings
  and  loan  association,  federal  savings  and loan association, private
  banker, credit union, investment  company,  insurance  company,  pension
  fund,  mortgage  company or other entity which makes, extends or holds a
  mortgage on any one to six family residence occupied by the owner or any
  property owned by a cooperative apartment  corporation,  as  defined  in
  subdivision  twelve  of  section three hundred sixty of the tax law, (as
  such subdivision was in effect on December thirtieth,  nineteen  hundred
  sixty), and located in this state.
    6.  "Escrow  account"  as used in this section and in section 5-601 or
  5-602 of the general obligations law shall mean any account  established
  pursuant  to  an  agreement between a mortgagor and a mortgage investing
  institution  whereby  the  mortgagor  pays  to  the  mortgage  investing
  institution  or  his  designee  amounts  to  be  used for the payment of
  insurance premiums, water rents or any similar charges, and  shall  also
  include real property tax escrow accounts as defined in title three-A of
  article nine of the real property tax law.
    7.  "One  to  six  family  residence"  as  used in this section and in
  section 5-601 or  5-602  of  the  general  obligations  law  shall  mean
  property  used  primarily  for  residential  purposes  for  one  to  six
  families, including property held in  condominium  form,  and  which  is
  occupied in whole or in part by the owner.
    8.  If  any  provision  of  this  section,  or the application of such
  provision to any individual, company, corporation or circumstance, shall
  be held invalid, the remainder of this section, and the  application  of
  such  section  to individuals, companies, corporations, or circumstances
  other than those to which it is held  invalid,  shall  not  be  affected
  thereby.


::: 14-c:power_of_the_superintendent_of_financial_services_to_prescribe_criteria_for_disclosure_of_information_on_savings_and_time_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 14-c. Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe
  criteria  for disclosure of information on savings and time accounts. 1.
  The superintendent of financial  services  shall  promulgate  rules  and
  regulations with respect to the disclosure of information on savings and
  time  accounts by all banking organizations and out-of-state state banks
  authorized to operate and maintain branches pursuant to  article  five-C
  of  this  chapter. Such rules and regulations shall set forth guidelines
  for, but not be limited to the following:
    (a) disclosure of the annual rate of simple  interest;  the  effective
  annual yield; the formula used in calculating interest; the frequency of
  compounding and crediting of interest; date on which a deposit begins to
  earn  interest;  any  delay  in  crediting a deposited instrument; grace
  periods for deposits and withdrawals; the minimum  balance  required  to
  earn  interest;  the method of determining the balance on which interest
  is paid; the minimum length of time funds must remain on deposit to earn
  interest; any fees levied on inactive accounts; any  charges,  penalties
  or  other  conditions  imposed  upon  withdrawals; any penalties for the
  closing of an account before  a  specific  date;  and  any  other  fees,
  charges or penalties.
    (b) form, content and distribution of information.
    2.  The  superintendent of financial services may alter or amend rules
  and regulations or promulgate additional rules  and  regulations  as  it
  deems  necessary  and proper to effectuate the provisions of subdivision
  one.


::: 14-d:power_of_the_superintendent_of_financial_services_to_prescribe_a_reasonable_period_of_time_permitting_the_drawing_on_items_received_for_deposit_in_a_customers_account.html
 
    &#167; 14-d. Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe
  a reasonable period of time permitting the drawing on items received for
  deposit  in  a  customer's  account.  1. It is the public policy of this
  state to provide all banking customers with the ability to draw  against
  items  deposited  for collection with any banking institution located in
  this state within a reasonable period of time.
    2.  The  superintendent  of  financial   services   shall   promulgate
  regulations,  which  may  be  amended  from time to time, establishing a
  reasonable period of time within which a banking institution must permit
  a banking customer to draw, as of right,  on  an  item  which  has  been
  received for deposit in the customer's account.
    3.   The   superintendent   is   authorized  to  gather  from  banking
  institutions such information as may be required by  the  superintendent
  of  financial  services for the promulgation of the regulations required
  by this section.
    4.  (a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this
  subdivision,  a provision in any agreement between a banking institution
  and its banking customer which provides for a period of time longer than
  the period prescribed under regulations  promulgated  pursuant  to  this
  section  is  unreasonable  for  purposes  of article four of the uniform
  commercial code and,  in  lieu  thereof,  the  maximum  period  of  time
  permitted  in  the regulation shall be deemed controlling. For all other
  purposes the provisions of this section shall not be deemed or construed
  to alter or impair any right or obligation under the uniform  commercial
  code.
    (b) This section does not prohibit a banking institution and a banking
  customer  from agreeing in writing to a greater period of time than that
  otherwise prescribed by regulation pursuant  to  this  section  for  the
  drawing  against  items because of special circumstances, provided that,
  such agreement is not contained in a  pre-printed  form  and  is  not  a
  usual, regular business practice of the institution.
    5.  Such regulations shall require every banking institution to notify
  each of its banking  customers,  in  writing,  of  the  applicable  time
  limitations  on  the  right to draw on items received for deposit in the
  customer's account and to keep posted in a  conspicuous  place  at  each
  branch,  a  notice  substantially setting forth the generally applicable
  time limitations of the banking institution's customers' rights to  draw
  on items deposited to their accounts.
    6.  The  superintendent  of  financial  services  is empowered, upon a
  determination that the  uniform  application  of  a  regulation  adopted
  pursuant  to  this  section  would  result  in unsafe or unsound banking
  practices, to issue  such  further  regulation  or  order  with  respect
  thereto as it deems appropriate.
    7. In this section "banking institution" has the same meaning ascribed
  to  it by section nine-f of this chapter and "item" has the same meaning
  ascribed to it by the uniform commercial code.


::: 14-e:power_of_the_superintendent_to_authorize_the_operation_of__savings_banks_and_savings_and_loan_associations_in_stock_form.html
 
    &#167; 14-e.  Power  of  the  superintendent  to authorize the operation of
  savings banks and savings and loan associations in stock form.
    1. Notwithstanding any other provision of law  to  the  contrary,  the
  superintendent is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as
  shall facilitate:
    (a)  The  organization  and  operation of stock-form savings banks and
  stock-form savings and loan associations,
    (b) The conversion of  mutual  savings  banks  and  savings  and  loan
  associations to stock form, and
    (c) Mergers and acquisitions of assets or of capital stock between and
  among  all  of  the foregoing banking institutions and between and among
  such institutions and any other banking institution.
    The  superintendent  is  authorized  to  define  and   implement,   by
  regulation,  the  terms and provisions of this section. In adopting such
  regulations, the superintendent shall take into account the  declaration
  of  policy contained in section one of a chapter of the laws of nineteen
  hundred eighty-four entitled "An  Act  to  amend  the  banking  law,  in
  relation  to  the  organization  and incorporation of stock-form savings
  banks and stock-form savings and loan associations and the conversion of
  mutual savings banks and mutual savings and loan associations  to  stock
  form".    In  connection  with  such  regulations, the superintendent is
  empowered to apply to such stock-form  organizations  any  provision  of
  this  chapter,  in whole or in part, as shall be applicable to any other
  stock-form banking organization and to vary any  condition,  requirement
  or  provision  of  this  article  or  article fifteen or sixteen of this
  chapter.
    2.  Such  applications  as  the  superintendent  may  prescribe  under
  paragraph  (a), (b) or (c) of subdivision one of this section shall each
  be accompanied by an investigation fee as prescribed pursuant to section
  eighteen-a of this article.
    3.  Without  limiting  the  foregoing,  the  superintendent,  if   the
  superintendent   shall   determine   that   unusual   and  extraordinary
  circumstances exist, shall be authorized, by resolution  or  regulation,
  to  apply or to deem inapplicable to any banking institution referred to
  in subdivision one of this section, such provisions of this  chapter  in
  whole  or  in  part, as it shall find appropriate in connection with the
  organization, operation, conversion, merger  or  any  other  transaction
  involving  a  stock-form  savings  bank  or  stock-form savings and loan
  association, provided, however, that such actions are  in  harmony  with
  the spirit of the law and are necessary because of the existence of such
  circumstances.


::: 14-f:power_of_the_superintendent_of_financial_services_to_require_the_provision_of_basic_banking_services.html
 
    &#167; 14-f.  Power  of the superintendent of financial services to require
  the provision of basic banking services. 1. The  legislature  finds  and
  declares  that certain consumers residing in this state may be unable to
  afford, without undue financial hardship,  the  cost  of  maintaining  a
  consumer  transaction  account  at a banking institution located in this
  state. It is the policy of this state that,  consistent  with  safe  and
  sound  banking practices, banking institutions make available lower cost
  banking services to consumers. It is further intended  that  no  banking
  institution  be  required to offer lower cost banking services at a cost
  to account holders which is less than the actual  cost  to  the  banking
  institution to provide such services.
    2.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  section,  every banking
  institution shall make available to  consumers  a  consumer  transaction
  account,  to  be  known as a "basic banking account", with the following
  features to be prescribed by the superintendent of financial services by
  regulation:
    (a) the maximum amount which a banking institution may require  as  an
  initial deposit, if any;
    (b)  the maximum amount a banking institution may require as a minimum
  balance, if any, to maintain such account;
    (c)  eight  withdrawal  transactions,  including  those  conducted  at
  electronic facilities, during any periodic cycle at no additional charge
  to the account holder; and
    (d)  the  maximum amount a banking institution may charge per periodic
  cycle for the use of such account.
    3. With respect to any transactions in excess of the number  specified
  in accordance with paragraph (c) of subdivision two of this section, (a)
  a banking institution may impose a reasonable per-transaction charge, or
  (b)  it  may  impose  the  fees  and  charges  normally applied to other
  consumer transaction accounts  available  at  that  banking  institution
  provided  that  any  charge per periodic cycle imposed hereunder must be
  reduced by the charge imposed under paragraph (d) of subdivision two  of
  this  section;  provided  however,  that  at  no time shall the fees and
  charges on the basic banking account exceed the amount that is  normally
  applied to other consumer transaction accounts available at that banking
  institution.
    4.  A  banking  institution  may require as a condition for opening or
  maintaining a basic banking account, (a) that  the  holder  of  a  basic
  banking  account be a resident of this state; and (b) the direct deposit
  to the banking institution  of  recurring  payments  such  as,  but  not
  limited  to,  social  security,  wage,  or pension payments where direct
  deposit is available to both the consumer and the banking institution.
    5. Except as provided in this section and any  rules  and  regulations
  promulgated hereunder, a basic banking account may be offered subject to
  the  same  rules,  conditions  and  terms  normally  applicable to other
  consumer  transaction  accounts  offered  by  the  banking  institution;
  provided  that  the  fees  and  charges for specific services other than
  those otherwise provided in this section shall not exceed those  imposed
  by  the  banking  institution  for  the same services in connection with
  other consumer transaction accounts offered by the banking institution.
    6. No banking institution shall be required to permit  any  person  to
  open  or  maintain  a  basic banking account pursuant to this section if
  such person maintains another consumer  transaction  account  either  at
  that banking institution or any other banking institution.
    7.  In  lieu  of the basic banking account required by this section, a
  banking institution may make available an alternative account  or  other
  banking  services  determined  by  the  superintendent to be at least as
  advantageous to consumers as the basic banking account.
    8. Where a banking institution posts in the public area of its offices
  notice of the availability of its other consumer  transaction  accounts,
  it  shall  also post equally conspicuous notice in such public areas and
  in the same manner the availability of its basic banking accounts. Where
  a  banking  institution  makes  available  in such public areas material
  describing the terms of its  other  consumer  transaction  accounts,  it
  shall  also  make  comparable descriptive material available in the same
  such areas and in the same manner for its basic banking account.
    9. For purposes of this section:
    (a) "banking institution" means any bank, trust company, savings bank,
  savings and loan association, or credit union, or branch  of  a  foreign
  banking  corporation  the  deposits  of which are insured by the Federal
  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation,  which  is   incorporated,   chartered,
  organized or licensed under the laws of this state or any other state or
  the  United  States, and, in the ordinary course of its business, offers
  consumer transaction accounts to the general public or, in the case of a
  credit union, to its members;
    (b) "consumer transaction account" means  a  demand  deposit  account,
  negotiable  order  of withdrawal account, share draft account or similar
  account used primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
    10. For purposes of  this  section,  any  banking  insititution  which
  offers  share  draft  accounts  shall  use  the  term "basic share draft
  account" instead of "basic banking account".
    11. If any provision of this  section,  or  the  application  of  such
  provision  to  any  person  or  circumstance  shall be held invalid, the
  remainder of this  section,  and  the  application  of  such  provisions
  thereof  to  persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
  held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 140-a:stock_option_plans.html
 
    &#167; 140-a.   Stock   option  plans.  Subject  to  such  regulations  and
  restrictions as may be prescribed by the superintendent, every bank  and
  every  trust  company  may  grant  options  to  purchase  authorized and
  unissued  shares  of  its  capital  stock  to  officers,  directors  and
  employees,  for  a  consideration as authorized by section five thousand
  four of this chapter of not less than one hundred per cent of  the  fair
  market  value  of the shares on the date the option is granted, pursuant
  to the terms of a stock option plan which has previously been adopted by
  the board of directors of the bank or trust company and approved by  the
  holders  of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the
  bank or trust company and by the superintendent.  Stock  options  issued
  hereunder  shall  not  extend  beyond a period of ten years from date of
  issuance.


::: 141:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 141.  Definitions.  1.  "Banking  institution,"  when  used  in this
  article, means a bank, a trust company, a stock-form savings bank  or  a
  stock-form savings and loan association.
    2.  "Company,"  when  used  in  this  article,  means any corporation,
  partnership, trust, unincorporated association, joint stock  association
  or  similar  organization  organized  under the laws of the state of New
  York, or if not so organized, doing business in the state of  New  York,
  or  any  individual residing or doing business in the state of New York,
  or any combination of individuals which combination is  residing  or  is
  doing  business  in  the  state  of  New  York,  any  combination of the
  foregoing which combination is residing or  is  doing  business  in  the
  state  of  New  York,  or  any  such individual and any of the foregoing
  acting in concert,  but  shall  not  include  (a)  any  corporation  the
  majority  of  the stock of which is owned by the United States or by any
  state unless the superintendent determines  that  it  would  be  in  the
  public  interest  to deem such a corporation to constitute a company, or
  (b) any corporation or community chest, fund, or  foundation,  organized
  and  operated  exclusively  for  religious,  charitable,  or educational
  purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit  of
  any  private  stockholder  or individual, and no substantial part of the
  activities of which is the  carrying  on  of  propaganda,  or  otherwise
  attempting to influence legislation unless the superintendent determines
  that  it  would  be  in  the public interest to deem such a corporation,
  community chest, fund, or foundation to constitute a company, or (c) any
  corporation or partnership  owning  or  controlling  stock  acquired  in
  connection with an underwriting of securities and which is held only for
  such  period  of  time as will permit the sale thereof upon a reasonable
  basis.
    3. "Bank holding company,"  when  used  in  this  article,  means  any
  company  which  (a)  directly  or indirectly, or through a subsidiary or
  subsidiaries, owns, controls, or holds with power to vote  (i)  ten  per
  centum  or  more  of the voting stock of a company which is or becomes a
  bank holding company by virtue of this article, or (ii) ten  per  centum
  or more of the voting stock of a banking institution, or (b) controls in
  any  manner the election of a majority of the directors of (i) a banking
  institution, or (ii) a company  which  is  or  becomes  a  bank  holding
  company  by virtue of this article, or (c) is a company, for the benefit
  of whose stockholders or members ten per centum or more  of  the  voting
  stock  of  a  banking  institution or of a company which is or becomes a
  bank holding company by virtue of this  article  is  held,  directly  or
  indirectly,  by  a  trustee or trustees, or (d) through a combination of
  (i) ownership, control or holding, directly  or  indirectly,  of  voting
  stock  and  (ii)  voting  stock  and  held, directly or indirectly, by a
  trustee or trustees for the benefit of the members  or  stockholders  of
  such  company,  if  such  voting  stock  is  voting stock of one or more
  banking institutions or of one of more companies  which  are  or  become
  bank holding companies by virtue of this article, as the case may be, is
  a company which would be a bank holding company if the aggregate of such
  voting stock were either entirely owned, controlled or held, directly or
  indirectly, by such company or entirely held, directly or indirectly, by
  a  trustee or trustees for the benefit of the members or stockholders of
  such company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no company shall be a  bank
  holding  company  by  virtue of its ownership or control of either stock
  acquired in a fiduciary capacity, except where such stock  is  held  for
  the  benefit  of  the stockholders or members of such company; or voting
  rights of stock acquired in the court  of  a  proxy  solicitation  by  a
  company  formed  and  operated  for the sole purpose of participating in
  proxy solicitations by virtue of its control of voting rights  of  stock
  in  any  banking  institution  or  bank  holding company acquired in the
  course of such solicitations.
    4.  "Subsidiary," when used in this article, means (a) any company ten
  per centum or more of whose voting stock is directly or  indirectly,  or
  through  a  subsidiary  or subsidiaries, owned, controlled, or held with
  power to vote, by a  bank  holding  company;  or  (b)  any  company  the
  election of a majority of whose directors is controlled in any manner by
  a  bank  holding  company;  or (c) any company ten per centum or more of
  whose voting stock is directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or  held
  with  power  to  vote,  by  a trustee or trustees for the benefit of the
  stockholders or members of a bank holding company; or (d) any company at
  least ten per centum of  the  voting  stock  of  which  is  directly  or
  indirectly,  or  through a subsidiary or subsidiaries, owned, controlled
  or held with power to vote by a combination of a  bank  holding  company
  and  by  a  trustee  or  trustees for the benefit of the stockholders or
  members of such bank holding company. For purposes of this  subdivision,
  voting  stock  shall  not be deemed to include voting stock owned by the
  United States or by any company wholly owned by the United  States.  Any
  company  having  any  of  the  relationships with a bank holding company
  described in clauses (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this subdivision  shall  be
  deemed to be a subsidiary of such bank holding company.
    5.  "Doing  business,"  when  used  in this article, shall include the
  maintenance by a foreign company of a place of business in  this  state,
  or  the conduct by a foreign company of operations in this state, or the
  acquisition, owning or holding by a foreign  company  of  any  stock  or
  assets  of  any  banking  institution  or  any company which directly or
  indirectly owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten per centum  or
  more of the voting stock of a banking institution.
    6. "Banking subsidiary," when used in this article, means a subsidiary
  that  is  a  banking institution, and a "non-banking subsidiary" means a
  subsidiary that is not a banking institution.


::: 142-a:limitation_on_acquisition_of_newly_chartered_banking_institutions.html
 
    &#167; 142-a.   Limitation   on  acquisition  of  newly  chartered  banking
  institutions. 1. No bank holding company  may  acquire  control  of  any
  banking  institution  which  has been chartered for less than five years
  and has its principal office in a city or village with a  population  of
  fifty  thousand or less if the principal office of a bank, trust company
  or national bank the principal office of which institution is located in
  this state and which institution is not a subsidiary of a  bank  holding
  company  is  located in such city or village; provided, however, such an
  acquisition may be consummated upon the  obtaining  of  the  appropriate
  supervisory approvals if: (a) application is pending for the institution
  being  acquired  to  merge with or acquire the assets of another banking
  institution having its principal office in the same city or village  and
  chartered  for over five years, or if; (b) the superintendent finds that
  the banking institution being acquired was  not  chartered  directly  or
  indirectly   by  the  acquiring  bank  holding  company,  its  officers,
  directors or stockholders, and does not have the capacity to continue to
  conduct its business independently in  a  fashion  consistent  with  the
  public interest and the interests of depositors, creditors, shareholders
  and stockholders.
    2.  As  used in this section, the term "control" means the possession,
  directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of
  the management and policies of a banking  institution,  whether  through
  the ownership of voting stock of such banking institution, the ownership
  of  voting stock of any company which possesses such power or otherwise.
  Control  shall  be  presumed  to  exist  if  any  company,  directly  or
  indirectly,  owns,  controls  or  holds  with  the power to vote ten per
  centum or more of the voting stock of any banking institution or of  any
  company  which owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten percent or
  more of the voting stock of such  banking  institution,  but  no  person
  shall be deemed to control a banking institution solely by reason of his
  being  an officer or director of such banking institution or company. As
  used in this section, the terms  "bank  holding  company"  and  "banking
  institution"  shall  have the meanings as defined in section one hundred
  forty-one of this article, except that the definition of  "bank  holding
  company"  is  modified  to  change  the  phrase  "a banking institution"
  wherever it appears therein to " two or more banking  institutions"  and
  the  definition  of  "banking institution" is modified to add a national
  banking association, the principal office of which is  located  in  this
  state.
    3.  As  used  in this section, the term "village" shall mean either an
  incorporated or unincorporated village.


::: 142:limitations_on_and_regulation_of_bank_holding_companies.html
 
    &#167; 142.  Limitations  on, and regulation of, bank holding companies. 1.
  It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly  to  borrow,  directly  or
  indirectly,  any  money  or  property  for  the purpose of enabling such
  person to pay for or to hold shares of stock of a bank  holding  company
  from  any subsidiary of such bank holding company, unless such borrowing
  is made upon security having an ascertained market  value  of  at  least
  fifteen  per  centum  more than the amount thereof. Any person knowingly
  violating the provisions of this subdivision shall,  for  each  offense,
  forfeit to the people of the state twice the amount of such borrowing.
    2.  Except  in  conformity  with  such rules and regulations as may be
  promulgated  by  the  superintendent,  it  shall  be  unlawful  for  any
  executive  officer  or  director of a bank holding company to borrow any
  sum of money from any subsidiary of such  bank  holding  company.  Every
  executive officer or director of such bank holding company violating the
  provisions  of  this subdivision shall, for each offense, forfeit to the
  people of the state twice the amount of such borrowing or borrowings.


::: 143-a:acquisitions_by_companies_of_all_the_capital_stock_of_banks_and_trust_companies_no_change_of_ultimate_control.html
 
    &#167; 143-a.  Acquisitions  by companies of all the capital stock of banks
  and trust companies; no change of ultimate control. 1. A company  having
  capital  stock or membership interests may acquire all the capital stock
  or membership interests of one or more corporations organized  under  or
  subject to the provisions of article three, six, or ten of this chapter,
  provided  that  (a)  such  corporation  or  corporations are directly or
  indirectly controlled prior  to  such  acquisition  by  the  persons  or
  entities  that  directly or indirectly control such company and (b) such
  persons or entities will continue to control  such  company  thereafter.
  Such  company  and  such  corporation  or  corporations  shall submit in
  duplicate to the superintendent a written plan of  acquisition  of  such
  stock.  Such  plan  shall be in form satisfactory to the superintendent,
  shall specify each corporation the stock of which is to be  acquired  by
  the  company  and  shall  prescribe  the  terms  and  conditions  of the
  acquisition and the mode of  carrying  it  into  effect,  including  the
  manner  of  exchanging the shares of each of the corporations for shares
  or other securities of the company. Any such plan may  provide  for  the
  payment  of  cash  in  lieu  of the issuance of fractional shares of the
  company.
    At the time of submission to the superintendent of the written plan of
  acquisition of stock, an investigation fee  as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be paid to the superintendent.
    2.  There shall be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent with
  the plan of acquisition of stock, a  certificate  of  the  president  or
  secretary of the company, certifying that such plan has been approved by
  the  board  of  directors  or  other  governing body of his company by a
  majority vote of all the members  thereof,  and  a  certificate  of  the
  president,  secretary or cashier of each corporation, the acquisition of
  all the capital stock of which is provided  for,  certifying  that  such
  plan has been approved by the board of directors of his corporation by a
  majority  vote  of  all  the  members  thereof,  and  that such plan was
  thereafter submitted to  the  stockholders  of  such  corporation  at  a
  meeting  thereof  held  upon notice of at least fifteen days, specifying
  the time, place and  object  of  such  meeting  and  addressed  to  each
  stockholder  at  the address appearing upon the books of the corporation
  and published at least once a week  for  two  successive  weeks  in  one
  newspaper  in  the  county  in  which such corporation has its principal
  place of business and that such plan has been approved at  such  meeting
  by  the vote of the stockholders owning at least two-thirds in amount of
  the stock of such corporation.
    3. If no action to be  taken  pursuant  to  the  plan  of  acquisition
  requires  approval of the superintendent pursuant to section one hundred
  forty-three-b of this  article,  the  superintendent  shall  approve  or
  disapprove  of  a proposed plan of acquisition within one hundred twenty
  days  after  the  submission  of  such  plan  of  acquisition,  and   in
  determining  whether  or not to approve any such plan the superintendent
  shall take into consideration the declaration  of  policy  contained  in
  section  ten  of  this chapter. If the superintendent shall approve such
  plan of acquisition, the superintendent shall file  the  plan,  together
  with  such  certificates  and  the  original  of  the  approval  of  the
  superintendent in the office of the superintendent. Upon such filing  in
  the  office  of  the  superintendent,  the  plan,  and  the acquisitions
  provided for therein, shall become effective, unless  a  later  date  is
  specified  in  the  plan,  in which event the plan and such acquisitions
  shall become effective upon such later date.
    4. Any stockholder of any such corporation, entitled to vote  on  such
  plan  of  acquisition, who does not assent thereto shall, subject to and
  by complying with section six thousand twenty-two of this chapter,  have
  the  right  to  receive  payment of the fair value of such stockholder's
  shares and the other rights and benefits provided by such section.
    5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivisions one, two, three and
  four of this section,  the  superintendent  of  financial  services,  by
  general  regulation,  may  establish  particular procedures enabling the
  acquisition of all the capital stock of a  stock-form  savings  bank  or
  stock-form  savings  and  loan  association  by a company having capital
  stock divided into shares, provided that such acquisition occurs as part
  of a transaction  in  which  such  savings  bank  or  savings  and  loan
  association is converted from mutual to stock form.
    6.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  subdivision three of section
  two-b of this chapter, when applying this section to  limited  liability
  trust companies, the term "capital stock" shall mean the equity interest
  of  a  member as set forth in the company's articles of organization or,
  in the absence of such a provision, the equity interest represented by a
  member's right to a proportionate share of the profits of the company.


::: 143-b:acquisition_by_companies_of_control_of_banking_institutions.html
 
    &#167; 143-b.  Acquisition by companies of control of banking institutions.
  1.   It shall  be  unlawful  except  with  the  prior  approval  of  the
  superintendent  for  any  company  to  acquire  control  of  any banking
  institution,  directly  or  indirectly,  provided,  however,  that   the
  provisions  of  this  section  shall  not  apply  to a company which has
  submitted to the  superintendent  a  plan  of  acquisition  pursuant  to
  section one hundred forty-three-a of this article for an acquisition not
  involving  a  change  of  control of the banking institution. As used in
  this section, the term  "control"  means  the  possession,  directly  or
  indirectly,  of  the  power  to  direct  or  cause  the direction of the
  management and policies of a banking institution,  whether  through  the
  ownership  of voting stock of such banking institution, the ownership of
  voting stock of any company which possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.
  Control  shall  be  presumed  to  exist  if  any  company,  directly  or
  indirectly, owns, controls or holds with  the  power  to  vote  ten  per
  centum  or more of the voting stock of any banking institution or of any
  company which owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten per  centum
  or  more  of the voting stock of such banking institution, but no person
  shall be deemed to control a banking institution solely by reason of his
  or her being an officer or  director  of  such  banking  institution  or
  company. The superintendent may in the superintendent's discretion, upon
  the  application of a banking institution or any company which, directly
  or indirectly, owns, controls or holds with power to vote  or  seeks  to
  own, control or hold with power to vote any voting stock of such banking
  institution,  determine whether or not the ownership, control or holding
  of  such  voting  stock  would  constitute  control  of   such   banking
  institution for purposes of this section.
    2.  A company desiring to acquire control of a banking institution may
  file application therefor, in writing, with the superintendent  and  pay
  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of
  this chapter to the superintendent. The application shall  contain  such
  information  as the superintendent, by rule or regulation, may prescribe
  as necessary or appropriate for the purpose of making the  determination
  required by subdivision three of this section.
    3.  Upon  receipt  of  such application, the superintendent shall post
  notice of the receipt thereof upon the bulletin board of the  department
  of  financial  services. The superintendent shall by order grant or deny
  the application and shall state the reasons for such grant or denial. An
  order shall be issued within one hundred twenty days after the  date  of
  the  submission  of  the  application  to  the superintendent and a copy
  thereof shall be posted upon the bulletin board  of  the  department  of
  financial  services.  In  determining whether or not to approve any such
  application, the superintendent shall take into  consideration  (i)  the
  declaration  of  policy  contained  in  section ten of the chapter, (ii)
  whether the effect of such action shall be consistent with  adequate  or
  sound banking and the preservation thereof, or result in a consolidation
  of  assets  beyond  limits  consistent with effective competition, (iii)
  whether such acquisition of control may result in such  a  lessening  of
  competition  as  to  be  injurious to the interest of the public or tend
  toward monopoly, and (iv) primarily, the public interest and  the  needs
  and convenience thereof.
    4.  A  company does not control a banking institution by virtue of its
  ownership or control of: (a) stock acquired by a company in  good  faith
  in a fiduciary capacity, except where such stock is held for the benefit
  of  stockholders  or members of such company; (b) voting rights of stock
  acquired in the course of a proxy solicitation by a company  formed  for
  the  sole  purpose  of participating in proxy solicitations by virtue of
  its control of voting rights of stock acquired in  the  course  of  such
  solicitation;  (c)  stock  acquired  by a company in connection with its
  underwriting of securities if such shares are held only for such  period
  of time as will permit the sale thereof on a reasonable basis; (d) stock
  acquired  by  a company in settlement or reduction of a loan, or advance
  of credit, or in exchange for an  investment  previously  made  in  good
  faith and in the ordinary course of business, provided that any stock so
  acquired shall be disposed of within a period of two years from the date
  upon  which it was acquired unless the superintendent shall, in writing,
  authorize such banking institution to  hold  such  stock  for  a  longer
  period;  or  (e)  stock  dividends,  stock  splits,  or additional stock
  acquired by a bank holding company, or by  any  subsidiary  thereof,  in
  exercise of its preemptive right as a stockholder.
    5.  For  a period of six months from the date of qualification thereof
  and for such  additional  period  of  time  as  the  superintendent  may
  prescribe  in writing, the provisions of subdivisions one, two and three
  of this section shall not apply to a transfer of control by operation of
  law to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined,  of  a  company
  which  has  control  of  a  banking  institution. Thereafter, such legal
  representative shall comply with the provisions of subdivisions one  and
  two of this section. The provisions of subdivision three of this section
  shall be applicable to an application made under this section by a legal
  representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative,"  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    If any provision of this section, or the application of such provision
  to any individual, company, corporation or circumstance, shall  be  held
  invalid,  the  remainder of this section, and the application thereof to
  anyone other than one to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected
  thereby.


::: 143:limitations_on_directors_officers_and_employees.html
 
    &#167; 143. Limitations on directors, officers and employees.
    1.  Every  director  of  a  bank  holding  company who is contingently
  obligated on any loan or other extension of credit  made  by  a  banking
  subsidiary  of  the  bank holding company of which he is a member of the
  board of directors to any other individual, partnership,  unincorporated
  association  or  corporation,  shall  file  a statement of his financial
  condition with such bank holding company at least once in each year  and
  at  such other times as the superintendent may require. This subdivision
  two shall not apply with respect  to  directors  whose  obligations  are
  secured  by  collateral  having  an ascertained market value of at least
  fifteen per centum more than the amount of such obligations.
    2. (a) No executive officer of  a  bank  holding  company  may  be  an
  executive  officer  or  director of another bank holding company or of a
  bank or trust company, savings bank, or savings and loan association, or
  of a national bank, federal savings bank or federal savings association,
  the principal office of which is located in this state, or of a  foreign
  banking   corporation   maintaining  a  branch  in  this  state,  unless
  permission therefor has been granted by the superintendent of  financial
  services   pursuant   to   the  provisions  of  paragraph  (b)  of  this
  subdivision, except that an executive officer of a bank holding  company
  may  be  (i)  an  executive  officer  and (ii) a director of one or more
  banking institutions or bank holding companies which are subsidiaries of
  such bank holding company.
    (b) The superintendent shall have the power to determine by regulation
  who shall be considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be
  an executive officer, and  by  regulation  to  grant  permission  to  an
  executive  officer  of  a bank holding company to be at the same time an
  executive officer, director or trustee or both an executive officer  and
  a  director or a trustee of another bank holding company or of a bank or
  trust company, savings bank, savings and loan association, national bank
  located in this state, federal savings and loan association  located  in
  this  state  or foreign banking corporation maintaining a branch in this
  state. Such permission may be granted only if in  the  judgment  of  the
  superintendent  such service by the executive officer will be consistent
  with the policy of the state of New York as declared in section  ten  of
  this  chapter.  The  superintendent  shall have the power to revoke such
  permission whenever the superintendent finds, after a reasonable  notice
  and  an  opportunity to be heard, that the public interest requires such
  revocation.
    (c) For the purposes of  this  subdivision,  the  terms  "subsidiary",
  "banking institution" and "bank holding company" shall each be given the
  same  meaning  as is contained in their respective definition in section
  one hundred forty-one of this article, except that the definition of the
  term "banking institution" is modified to include national bank, federal
  savings bank or federal savings association,  the  principal  office  of
  which  institution  is  located  in  this  state,  and a foreign banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    (d) All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this chapter  on
  executive  officers  and  directors  of  bank  holding  companies  shall
  continue in effect.


::: 145:penalties_restraining_orders_and_injunctions.html
 
    &#167; 145.  Penalties;  restraining orders and injunctions. 1. Any company
  which wilfully violates any provision of this article  is  guilty  of  a
  misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than one
  thousand dollars for each day during which such violation continues.
    2.  Any  individual  who  wilfully  participates in a violation of any
  provision of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
  thereof shall be fined not more than ten thousand dollars  or  shall  be
  imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
    3.  If  any  action violates or would violate any of the provisions of
  this article, the superintendent or his duly authorized agent may  apply
  to  the supreme court of this state for the enforcement of this article;
  and such court shall have jurisdiction to enforce obedience thereto,  to
  order  divestment  of  stock  illegally  acquired,  held  or  voted,  by
  injunction or by other process, mandatory or otherwise, and to  restrain
  violation of this article.


::: 146:saving_provision.html
 
    &#167; 146. Saving provision. Nothing herein contained shall be interpreted
  or  construed  as  approving  any act, action or conduct which is or has
  been or may be in violation of existing law, nor shall  anything  herein
  contained  constitute  a  defense  to  any  action, suit, or proceeding,
  pending or hereafter instituted  on  account  of  any  act,  action,  or
  conduct prohibited by law.


::: 147:separability_of_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 147.  Separability  of provisions. If any provision of this article,
  or the application of such  provision  to  any  individual,  company  or
  circumstance,  shall  be held invalid, the remainder of the article, and
  the  application  of  such  provision  to  individuals,   companies   or
  circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be
  affected thereby.


::: 14:additional_powers_of_the_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 14.  Additional  powers of the superintendent. 1. For the purpose of
  effectuating the policy declared in section ten of this article, without
  limiting any other powers that the superintendent is permitted by law to
  exercise, the superintendent shall have the power  to  make,  alter  and
  amend  orders,  rules  and  regulations  not inconsistent with law. Such
  orders, rules and regulations shall be brought to the attention of those
  affected thereby in a manner prescribed by  law.  Without  limiting  the
  foregoing  power,  orders  or rules or regulations may be so adopted for
  the following specific purposes:
    (a) To approve organization certificates and articles of  association,
  private  bankers'  certificates and applications of foreign corporations
  for licenses to do business in this state, as provided in this article.
    (b) To determine the purposes  for  which  and  the  extent  to  which
  capital  notes  or debentures shall be considered and treated as capital
  stock  of  corporate  banking  organizations;  but  capital   notes   or
  debentures  shall  not be considered or treated as capital stock for the
  purposes of sections one hundred ten and  one  hundred  eleven  of  this
  chapter.
    (c) To grant permission to a trust company, including a national bank,
  to  establish  one or more common trust funds upon application and after
  inquiry concerning the qualifications of such trust company to  maintain
  and  manage  the same, and to regulate the conduct and management of any
  common trust fund and for such purpose, but not by way of limitation  of
  the  foregoing  power,  to  prescribe (1) the records and accounts to be
  kept of such common trust funds; (2) the procedure  to  be  followed  in
  adding  moneys  to  or  withdrawing  moneys or investments from any such
  common trust fund; (3) the methods  and  standards  to  be  employed  in
  determining  the  value of such common trust funds and of the assets and
  investments thereof; (4) the maximum amount of  moneys  of  any  estate,
  trust  or  fund  which may be invested in any common trust fund; and (5)
  the maximum proportionate share of any such common trust fund which  may
  be apportioned to any estate, trust or fund; and in connection with such
  powers  to classify the corporations maintaining such common trust funds
  according to the population of the city, town or village  in  which  the
  principal  offices  of such corporations are respectively located and to
  prescribe the minimum total of  any  such  common  trust  fund  and  the
  permissible  limits  of  investment  therein  in  accordance  with  such
  classification.
    (cc) To approve the incorporation by or on behalf of  trust  companies
  and  national  banks  with  trust  powers  of  a mutual trust investment
  company to form a medium for the common  investment  of  funds  held  by
  trust   companies,   including  national  banks,  acting  as  executors,
  administrators,  guardians,  inter-vivos  or  testamentary  trustees  or
  committees   or   conservators   either   alone   or   with   individual
  co-fiduciaries, and any amendments of the certificate  of  incorporation
  of such mutual trust investment company, and to regulate the conduct and
  management of such mutual trust investment company and for such purpose,
  but  not  by  way of limitation of the foregoing power, to prescribe (1)
  the records and accounts to be kept  by  such  mutual  trust  investment
  company;  (2)  the procedure to be followed in the sale or redemption of
  stocks or shares therein; (3) the methods and standards to  be  employed
  in  determining  the value of such shares in the mutual trust investment
  company and the assets and investments  thereof;  and  (4)  the  maximum
  proportionate  shares  of any such mutual trust investment company which
  may be apportioned or sold to any one trust company or national bank.
    (d) To authorize a bank or a trust company to invest  in  the  capital
  stock of, or any other equity interest in, any corporation, partnership,
  unincorporated  association,  limited liability company, or other entity
  not  included  among  the  corporations  or  other  entities  for  which
  investment  in  the  capital stock or other equity interest is expressly
  authorized by this chapter.
    (e)  To  authorize  a  savings  bank  to  invest in the capital stock,
  capital notes and debentures of a trust company or other corporation, as
  provided in article six of this chapter.
    (f) To authorize a savings and  loan  association  to  invest  in  the
  capital  stock, capital notes and debentures of a trust company or other
  corporation, as provided in article ten of this chapter.
    (g) To prescribe from time to time: (1) the rates  of  interest  which
  may  be  paid  on  deposits  with  any banking organization and with any
  branch or agency of a foreign banking corporation; and (2) the rates  of
  dividends  which  may  be  paid  on  shares  of  any  savings  and  loan
  association or credit  union,  and  to  prohibit  the  payment  of  such
  interest  or such dividends by any banking organization or by any branch
  of  a  foreign  banking  corporation.  Interest  or  dividend  rates  so
  prescribed need not be uniform.
    (h)  To  limit and regulate withdrawals of deposits or shares from any
  banking  organization,  if  the  superintendent  shall  find  that  such
  limitation  and  regulation  are  necessary  because of the existence of
  unusual and extraordinary circumstances.
    (i) To prescribe from time to time reserves  against  deposits  to  be
  maintained  by  banks  and  trust companies pursuant to article three of
  this chapter; provided  that  no  reserve  requirement  imposed  against
  either  time  or demand deposits shall require any bank or trust company
  to maintain total reserves  in  an  amount  greater  than  it  would  be
  required  to  maintain  if  it  were at the time a member of the federal
  reserve system; and provided further, however,  that  a  bank  or  trust
  company  not a member of the federal reserve system may be authorized to
  maintain total reserves against deposits in an  amount  lower  than  the
  reserves  required  by  article  three of this chapter to be maintained,
  either in individual cases or by general regulations on  such  basis  as
  the  superintendent  may  deem  reasonable or appropriate in view of the
  character of the business transacted by such bank or trust company.
    (j) To grant permission to officers, directors, clerks or employees of
  banks  and  trust  companies  to  engage  in   the   issue,   flotation,
  underwriting,  public  sale  or  distribution at wholesale or retail, or
  through syndicate  participation  of  stocks,  bonds  or  other  similar
  securities,  and  to  revoke  such  permission, both as provided in this
  chapter.
    (k) To prescribe the methods and standards to be used  (1)  in  making
  the  examinations  provided  for in this chapter, and (2) in valuing the
  assets of banking organizations.
    (l) To prescribe the  form  and  contents  of  periodical  reports  of
  condition   to  be  rendered  to  the  superintendent  by  banks,  trust
  companies, private bankers and branches of foreign banking corporations,
  and the manner of publication of such reports.
    (m) To postpone or omit the  calling  for  and  rendering  of  reports
  provided  for by this chapter if the superintendent shall find that such
  postponement or omission  is  necessary  because  of  the  existence  of
  unusual and extraordinary circumstances.
    (n)  To  define what is an unsafe manner of conducting the business of
  banking organizations.
    (o) To define what  is  a  safe  or  unsafe  condition  of  a  banking
  organization.
    (p) To make variations from the requirements of this chapter, provided
  such  variations  are  in  harmony  with  the  spirit of the law, if the
  superintendent shall find that such variations are necessary because  of
  the existence of unusual and extraordinary circumstances.
    (q)  To  establish safe and sound methods of banking and safeguard the
  interests  of  depositors,  creditors,  shareholders  and   stockholders
  generally in times of emergency.
    (qq) To permit any banking organization, national banking association,
  federal  mutual  savings  bank, federal savings and loan association and
  federal credit union to offer graduated payment  mortgages  which  shall
  conform  to  the  provisions  of section two hundred seventy-nine of the
  real property law.
    (s) To permit authorized lenders, as defined by  section  two  hundred
  eighty  or  two  hundred  eighty-a  of  the  real property law, to offer
  reverse mortgage loans which shall conform to the provisions of  section
  two hundred eighty or two hundred eighty-a of the real property law.


::: 150:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 150.  Definitions.  1. "Subsidiary trust company", when used in this
  article, means a trust company which is subject  to  the  provisions  of
  this article.
    2. "Bank holding company" and "subsidiary", when used in this article,
  shall  each  have  the  same  meaning  specified  in section one hundred
  forty-one of this chapter.
    3. "Owning bank holding company",  when  used  in  this  article  with
  respect  to  a  subsidiary trust company, means the bank holding company
  which owns all of the outstanding voting stock of such subsidiary  trust
  company.
    4.  When  used  in  this  article, an "affiliated bank" or "affiliated
  trust company" of a subsidiary  trust  company  means  any  bank,  trust
  company,  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan association, national bank,
  federal savings bank, federal savings association, or out-of-state state
  bank (as such term is defined in section two hundred twenty-two of  this
  chapter),  or  such  other  banking institution as the superintendent of
  financial services  may  permit  specifically  or  by  general  rule  or
  regulation, which is a subsidiary of the bank holding company which owns
  such subsidiary trust company.
    5.  "Trust  office",  when  used  in  this  article  with respect to a
  subsidiary trust company,  means  an  office  of  the  subsidiary  trust
  company maintained for the purpose of conducting its business.
    6.  "Trust officer", when used in this article with respect to a trust
  company which is  not  a  subsidiary  trust  company,  means  an  office
  maintained solely for the purpose of conducting business relating to the
  exercise of its fiduciary powers.


::: 151:organization_of_subsidiary_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 151.  Organization of subsidiary trust companies. A subsidiary trust
  company shall be organized in accordance with  the  provisions  of  this
  chapter  relating  to  the  organization  of trust companies. All of the
  outstanding voting stock of a subsidiary trust company shall be owned by
  a bank holding company.


::: 152:business_of_subsidiary_trust_companies_limitation_on_powers.html
 
    &#167; 152. Business of subsidiary trust companies; limitation on powers. A
  subsidiary trust company shall have all of the powers of and be entitled
  to engage in the business of a trust company, provided that a subsidiary
  trust company shall not have the power to accept deposits.


::: 153:offices.html
 
    &#167; 153. Offices. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections twenty-nine
  and one hundred five of this chapter, (a) a subsidiary trust company may
  open  and  occupy a trust office, including its principal office, at any
  one or more locations in the state of New York at which the owning  bank
  holding  company,  any  affiliated bank, or any affiliated trust company
  has a banking office, and (b) an affiliated trust company may  open  and
  occupy  a  trust  office  at  the  location  in  the state at which such
  subsidiary trust company has its principal office.  A  subsidiary  trust
  company  or  an  affiliated  trust  company,  as  the case may be, which
  proposes to open and occupy a trust  office  pursuant  to  this  section
  shall  make written application to the superintendent for leave to do so
  in the manner provided in  section  twenty-nine  of  this  chapter  with
  respect  to branch offices and shall pay the investigation fee specified
  therein.


::: 154:transfer_of_fiduciary_relationships_from_affiliated_banks_or_trust_companies_to_subsidiary_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 154.  Transfer  of  fiduciary relationships from affiliated banks or
  trust companies to subsidiary trust companies. 1. (a)  At  any  time  or
  times   after   the   issuance  to  it  by  the  superintendent  of  the
  authorization certificate specified in article two of  this  chapter,  a
  subsidiary  trust  company may apply by verified petition to the supreme
  court, special term, in and for the county in which its principal office
  is located requesting that it be substituted for each of its  affiliated
  banks or trust companies specified in the petition (i) in every existing
  fiduciary  capacity designated therein and (ii) in the case of the first
  such petition, in every fiduciary capacity which may take  effect  after
  the  date  of  the  hearing  provided  for  below.  Each  such specified
  affiliated bank or trust company shall join in such petition. Notice  of
  the  filing  of such petition shall be given prior to the filing thereof
  to the superintendent.
    (b) Such petition shall indicate  the  county  wherein  the  principal
  office  of each affiliated bank or trust company joining in the petition
  is located and shall designate each fiduciary relationship  existing  at
  the  date  thereof  with  respect to which such subsidiary trust company
  requests substitution. Such petition shall additionally set forth,  with
  regard  to  each existing fiduciary relationship designated therein, the
  name and address last known to the petitioner of each person entitled to
  receive notice of hearing thereon, to wit:
    (i) in the case where an affiliated bank or trust company specified in
  the petition is acting with one or more cofiduciaries in respect to such
  fiduciary relationship, each such cofiduciary; and
    (ii)  in  the  case  where  the  instrument  creating  such  fiduciary
  relationship  so  provides,  each  person  who,  alone  or together with
  others, is empowered to revoke, terminate or amend such instrument or to
  remove the corporate fiduciary; and
    (iii) in the case of  any  fiduciary  relationship  not  specified  in
  subparagraph   (ii)   of  this  paragraph,  each  beneficiary  currently
  receiving income and any other beneficiary interested in the income  and
  any person presumptively entitled to share in distributions of principal
  were  such  fiduciary  relationship  terminated  at  the  date  of  such
  petition; and
    (iv) in the  case  of  any  fiduciary  relationship,  including  those
  specified  in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph, which
  is an estate of  a  deceased  person  or  which  is  a  guardianship  or
  conservatorship,   the   clerk  of  the  court  in  which  such  estate,
  guardianship or conservatorship  matter  is  pending,  together  with  a
  statement  that  a  notice  has  been, or is being, given to the persons
  specified in such subparagraphs. If any  of  the  persons  specified  in
  subparagraph  (i),  (ii)  or  (iii) of this paragraph is an infant or an
  incompetent, such notice shall be given to the guardian or committee, as
  the case may be, of his property. If any  such  infant,  or  incompetent
  shall not have a guardian or committee to so represent him, or if any of
  the  persons  specified  in  subparagraph  (i),  (ii)  or  (iii) of this
  paragraph is incapacitated, unknown (or a person whose  whereabouts  are
  unknown)  or  confined  as  a prisoner in a penal institution, the court
  may, in its discretion, appoint  one  or  more  guardians  ad  litem  to
  represent any one or more of such persons.
    2.  When  any  petition  described  in subdivision one of this section
  shall have been filed, the supreme court  for  the  county  where  filed
  shall  enter  an order fixing a date and time for hearing thereon, which
  date shall not be less than thirty-five days after  the  filing  of  the
  petition, and approving the form of notice to be given by the petitioner
  as  hereinafter provided. At least twenty-five days prior to the hearing
  date, the petitioner shall cause a copy of such notice to be  mailed  by
  first  class  mail  to  each  person identified in the petition as being
  entitled to receive notice under the provisions of this article, at such
  person's address last known to  the  petitioner  as  set  forth  in  the
  petition.  In addition, the petitioner shall cause a copy of such notice
  to be published  at  least  once  a  week  for  three  successive  weeks
  preceding  the  hearing  date, the first such publication to be at least
  twenty-five days prior to the hearing date, such publication to be in  a
  newspaper  of  general circulation published in each county in which the
  principal office of an affiliated bank or trust company specified in the
  petition is located, or if in any case there be no such newspaper,  then
  in a newspaper of general circulation published in a contiguous county.
    3.  The  notice  to  be mailed and published with respect to each such
  petition shall state (a) the time and place of the hearing thereon,  (b)
  the  name  of the subsidiary trust company which has filed the petition,
  (c) the name of each affiliated bank or trust company which  has  joined
  in  such  petition,  (d)  that the petition requests that the subsidiary
  trust company be substituted for each of its affiliated banks  or  trust
  companies specified in the petition in every existing fiduciary capacity
  designated  therein  and,  if  appropriate,  in every fiduciary capacity
  which may take effect after such hearing, and (e)  that  any  person  to
  whom  such notice is addressed may file an objection as provided in, and
  in accordance with, subdivision four of this section. All costs incurred
  in connection with the printing, mailing and publishing of  such  notice
  shall be borne by the petitioner.
    4.  Any person entitled to receive notice under the provisions of this
  article may, as to the fiduciary relationship by which he  is  affected,
  object to the substitution of the subsidiary trust company as fiduciary.
  Any  such  person  wishing to so object must file a written objection to
  such substitution, setting forth the reasons therefor, with the clerk of
  the court in which the hearing is to be held, and serve a  copy  thereof
  upon  the  attorney  for  the petitioner, at least three days before the
  date of hearing and  must  appear  at  such  hearing  in  person  or  by
  attorney.
    5.  On  the date fixed for the hearing on such petition, upon making a
  determination that notice has been properly given as  required  by  this
  section,  the  said  supreme court shall enter an order substituting the
  subsidiary trust company for each of its specified affiliated  banks  or
  trust  companies in every designated existing fiduciary capacity and, in
  the case of the first petition by the  petitioner,  in  every  fiduciary
  capacity   which   may   take  effect  thereafter,  excepting  fiduciary
  capacities in  any  existing  relationship  with  respect  to  which  an
  objection  has been filed pursuant to and in accordance with subdivision
  four of this  section;  provided,  that  in  the  case  of  a  fiduciary
  relationship  where  more  than  one person would be entitled under this
  article to object to substitution of the subsidiary trust  company,  the
  properly  made  objection  by  less  than  all  of such persons shall be
  considered by the court which shall, in its sole  discretion,  determine
  whether  such  substitution  shall  be  so  ordered.  In  the  case of a
  fiduciary relationship in which an objection has been properly  made  by
  any  person  who  is entitled pursuant to this article to object to such
  substitution, the court may,  in  its  discretion,  determine  that  the
  resignation  of the affiliated bank or trust company will be accepted in
  respect of such fiduciary relationship; if  the  court  shall  determine
  that  such  resignation  will  be  accepted,  it  shall  enter  an order
  substituting  a  different  banking  institution  or  subsidiary   trust
  company, which shall have given its written consent to such substitution
  prior  to  the  entry  of  such order. In construing the language of any
  instrument which is  the  subject  of  a  proceeding  pursuant  to  this
  article,  nothing  contained  herein  shall be considered to abrogate or
  affect the intent or written language of  the  instrument  creating  the
  fiduciary  relationship. Upon entry of the court's order, the subsidiary
  trust  company  shall, without further act, be substituted in every such
  fiduciary capacity.
    6. In respect of each fiduciary capacity, existing and future,  as  to
  which  substitution  has  been  ordered  pursuant  to this article, each
  designation of  a  petitioning  affiliated  bank  or  trust  company  as
  fiduciary  in  any  capacity  contained  in  any contract, will or other
  document or instrument shall be deemed a designation of  the  subsidiary
  trust  company  substituted  for  such bank or trust company pursuant to
  this section. Any grant in any such contract, will or other document  or
  instrument  of any rights, powers, duties or authorities, whether or not
  discretionary, shall be  deemed  conferred  upon  the  subsidiary  trust
  company deemed designated as the fiduciary pursuant to this section.
    7. Upon substitution pursuant to this section, each affiliated bank or
  trust  company  shall deliver to the subsidiary trust company all assets
  held  by  such  trust  company  as  fiduciary  (except  assets  held  in
  capacities with respect to which there has been no substitution pursuant
  to this section) and upon such substitution all such assets shall become
  the  property  of  the subsidiary trust company without the necessity of
  any instrument of transfer or conveyance. A trust company shall account,
  in respect of each of its existing fiduciary relationships designated in
  the petition and as to which a substitution has been ordered under  this
  section,  for  that  portion  of  the  accounting  period  in which such
  substitution was ordered ending on the date of  such  order;  thereafter
  the subsidiary trust company which has been substituted as fiduciary for
  such  bank  or  trust  company  shall  account  in  respect of each such
  fiduciary relationship. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to
  the contrary, after a  substitution  of  existing  fiduciary  capacities
  pursuant  to  this  article,  an  affiliated bank or trust company shall
  remain jointly liable with the subsidiary trust company which  has  been
  substituted  for  it  in  respect  of  each  of  the  existing fiduciary
  relationships as to which such substitution has been ordered,  but  such
  affiliated  bank  or  trust  company  shall  be  entitled  to a right of
  subrogation against such subsidiary trust company for all  amounts  paid
  by  such  affiliated  bank  or  trust  company as a result of such joint
  liability.


::: 155:applicable_laws_and_regulations.html
 
    &#167; 155. Applicable laws and regulations. To the extent not inconsistent
  with  provisions  of  this  article, a subsidiary trust company shall be
  subject to the laws of the state of New  York  generally  applicable  to
  trust  companies.  Nothing  in this article shall be deemed to affect in
  any way the powers of the superintendent of financial services to adopt,
  alter or amend rules and regulations with respect  to  trust  companies,
  provided  that  no  such  rule  or  regulation  shall be applicable to a
  subsidiary trust company to the  extent  it  is  inconsistent  with,  or
  purports  to  limit  the  powers or rights of a subsidiary trust company
  expressly granted by, the provisions of this article.


::: 160:verified_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 160. Verified certificate. Any individual or partnership desiring to
  engage   in   business   as   a  private  banker  shall  submit  to  the
  superintendent a verified certificate in duplicate which shall state:
    1. The full name, residence and post office address of such individual
  or of each member of such partnership.
    2. The state or  country  of  which  each  individual  named  in  such
  certificate is a citizen.
    3. The amount of permanent capital such individual or partnership will
  invest  in his business as a private banker which shall be not less than
  one million dollars.
    4. The place where his office is to be located.


::: 161:authorization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 161. Authorization certificate. If the superintendent shall issue an
  authorization  certificate  as  provided in article two of this chapter,
  such individual or partnership may engage in  the  business  of  banking
  including  receiving deposits subject to check or for repayment upon the
  presentation of a pass book, certificate of deposit or other evidence of
  debt, or upon the request of the depositor, or in the discretion of such
  individual,  or   partnership;   receiving   money   for   transmission;
  discounting  or  negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange
  or other evidences of debt; and buying  or  selling  exchange,  coin  or
  bullion  at  the  location  specified in such authorization certificate,
  subject to all  the  restrictions  and  limitations  contained  in  this
  chapter.  In  conducting  such business a private banker may make use of
  the words "bank," "banker" or  "banking"  or  their  equivalent  or  any
  derivative or compound thereof.


::: 162:permanent_capital_increase_or_decrease.html
 
    &#167; 162.  Permanent  capital; increase or decrease. Every private banker
  shall keep unimpaired in his banking business the  amount  of  permanent
  capital  specified in his verified certificate.  From time to time, with
  the written approval of the superintendent and upon  good  cause  shown,
  such permanent capital may be increased or decreased.


::: 163:restrictions_as_to_place_of_business.html
 
    &#167; 163.  Restrictions  as to place of business. The office of a private
  banker shall not be located  in  the  same  room  with,  or  in  a  room
  connecting  with,  any  bank,  trust  company, savings bank, or national
  bank.


::: 164:change_of_location.html
 
    &#167; 164.  Change  of  location.  Any  private  banker may make a written
  application to the superintendent to change the location of  his  office
  to  another  place  in  the  same city or village. The application shall
  state the reason for such proposed change and shall be verified by  such
  private  banker,  or  if  such  private  banker  is  a partnership, by a
  majority of  the  members  thereof,  and  shall  be  accompanied  by  an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter. Such change may be  made  upon  the  written  approval  of  the
  superintendent.


::: 165:segregation_of_investments_title_to_be_taken_in_descriptive_name.html
 
    &#167; 165.  Segregation  of  investments; title to be taken in descriptive
  name. 1. Every private banker shall  segregate  and  keep  separate  and
  apart   from  all  other  property  and  assets  of  the  individual  or
  partnership all securities and property,  and  the  evidences  of  title
  thereto,  in which funds held by him as a private banker and the surplus
  used by him in his private banking  business  have  been  invested.  The
  phrase  "funds held by him as a private banker" shall for the purpose of
  this chapter mean such private banker's  permanent  capital  and  moneys
  received by him on deposit.
    2.  All  conveyances,  deeds,  mortgages,  assignments,  contracts and
  agreements received, taken, or entered into by any  private  banker,  in
  connection  with  his  banking  business,  shall  be received, taken, or
  entered into in the firm name if such private banker is a partnership or
  in the name of such private banker with the addition of the  descriptive
  name "private banker" if such private banker is not a partnership.


::: 166:depositors_preferred_in_case_of_failure_or_suspension.html
 
    &#167; 166. Depositors preferred in case of failure or suspension.  In case
  of  the  failure  or  suspension  of  any  private banker, the claims of
  persons for money on deposit or  delivered  for  transmission  shall  be
  preferred  against  such  assets  as shall be shown by the books of such
  private banker, or by other legal evidence, to have  been  derived  from
  the  investment  of  such  moneys,  or  from the investment of permanent
  capital, such claimants shall also share pro rata with  other  creditors
  in any other assets of such individual or of such partnership and of the
  individual members thereof.


::: 167:reserves_against_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 167.  Reserves against deposits. Every private banker shall maintain
  total reserves against his deposits of the same amount and kind  and  on
  hand  or  on deposit to the same extent as is at the time required by or
  pursuant to the provisions of this chapter of a bank doing  business  in
  the same place.
    If  any private banker shall fail to maintain the reserves required by
  this section, he shall be liable  for  and  shall  pay  any  assessments
  levied by the superintendent as provided in article two of this chapter.


::: 168:restrictions_on_acceptance_of_deposits_and_payment_of_interest.html
 
    &#167; 168. Restrictions on acceptance of deposits and payment of interest.
  No private banker shall:
    (1)  Accept  any  amount  for  deposit if after the acceptance of such
  amount the average amount of the deposits received from  all  depositors
  during  the  twelve  month  period  ending  upon the day upon which such
  deposit is tendered, or during such period, if less than twelve  months,
  that  such  private  banker  has been engaged in business, would be less
  than one thousand dollars. The term "deposit" as used in this  paragraph
  shall  mean  coin  or  currency  of  the United States or of any foreign
  country, and checks, drafts and other funds  credited  by  such  private
  banker to the account of any one depositor on any one day, but shall not
  include  dividend  checks,  coupons, or other similar items collected by
  such private banker for the account of a depositor, or remittances  made
  by  a  depositor  for  the purpose of repaying, in whole or in part, any
  existing indebtedness due to such private banker, or  interest  credited
  by  such  private  banker  to  the  account  of  a depositor, or amounts
  delivered for transmission; or
    (2) Pay or credit interest, or  pay,  credit  or  give  any  bonus  or
  gratuity  or  thing  of value, on any deposit balance, if the average of
  the daily credit balances in such deposit account during the period  for
  which  interest  is  paid  or  credited is less than seven thousand five
  hundred dollars.


::: 171:repayment_of_deposits_standing_in_the_names_of_minors_trustees_or_joint_depositors_repayment_where_adverse_claim_is_asserted_interpleader_in_certai.html
 
    &#167; 171. Repayment of deposits standing in the names of minors, trustees
  or   joint  depositors;  repayment  where  adverse  claim  is  asserted;
  interpleader in certain actions; effect of claims or advices originating
  in, and statutes, rules or regulations purporting  to  be  in  force  in
  occupied  territory. 1. When any deposit shall be made by or in the name
  of any minor, the same shall be held for the exclusive right and benefit
  of such minor, and free from the control or lien of all  other  persons,
  except  creditors, and shall be paid, together with the interest thereon
  to the person in whose name the deposit shall have been  made,  and  the
  receipt  or  acquittance  of  such minor shall be a valid and sufficient
  release and discharge for such  deposit  or  any  part  thereof  to  the
  private banker.
    4.  A  private banker need not recognize or give any effect to a claim
  of authority to order the payment or delivery  of  any  funds  or  other
  property  standing on his books to the credit of, or held by him for the
  account of,  any  person,  corporation,  unincorporated  association  or
  partnership,  which  claim  conflicts with a claim of authority of which
  the private banker had  prior  notice,  unless  the  person  or  persons
  asserting  such  subsequent  claim  shall  procure  a restraining order,
  injunction or other appropriate process against said private banker from
  a court of competent jurisdiction in the  United  States,  or,  in  lieu
  thereof,  with the consent of said private banker, shall execute to said
  private banker, in form and with sureties acceptable  to  him,  a  bond,
  indemnifying  him  for  any  and  all liability, loss, damage, costs and
  expenses for or on account of any payment or delivery of  such  property
  by  him  pursuant  to  such  subsequent  claim of authority or for or on
  account of the dishonor of any check or other order  of  any  person  or
  persons  asserting  the  claim of authority of which such private banker
  already had notice at the  time  the  subsequent  conflicting  claim  of
  authority is asserted by the person or persons furnishing such bond.
    5.  Notice  to any private banker of an adverse claim to any property,
  or to a deposit of cash or securities  standing  on  his  books  to  the
  credit of, or held for the account of, any person shall not be effectual
  to  cause  said private banker to recognize said adverse claimant unless
  said adverse claimant shall also either  procure  a  restraining  order,
  injunction or other appropriate process against said private banker from
  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  in  the  United States in a cause
  therein instituted by him wherein the person to whose credit the deposit
  stands, or for whose account the property or deposit  is  held,  or  his
  executor  or  administrator  is made a party and served with summons, or
  shall execute  to  said  private  banker,  in  form  and  with  sureties
  acceptable  to him a bond, indemnifying said private banker from any and
  all liability, loss, damage, costs and expenses, for and on  account  of
  the  payment  of  or  delivery  pursuant  to  such  adverse claim or the
  dishonor of the check or other order of the person to whose  credit  the
  deposit stands, or for whose account the property or deposit is held, on
  the books of said private banker.
    6. (a) In all actions against any private banker to recover for moneys
  on  deposit therewith, if there be any person or persons, not parties to
  the action who claim the same fund, the court in  which  the  action  is
  pending,  may,  on  the  petition of such private banker, and upon eight
  days' notice to the plaintiff and such claimants, and without  proof  as
  to  the  merits  of the claim, make an order amending the proceedings in
  the action by making such claimants parties defendant thereto;  and  the
  court  shall  thereupon proceed to determine the rights and interests of
  the several parties to the action in  and  to  such  funds.  The  remedy
  provided  in  this  section shall be in addition to and not exclusive of
  that provided in any other interpleader provision.
    (b) The funds on deposit which are the subject of such an  action  may
  remain  with such private banker to the credit of the action until final
  judgment therein, and be entitled to the same interest as other deposits
  of the same  class,  and  shall  be  paid  by  such  private  banker  in
  accordance  with  the  final  judgment  of  the court; or the deposit in
  controversy may be paid into court to await the final  determination  of
  the  action,  and  when  the  deposit is so paid into court such private
  banker shall be struck out as a party to the action, and  its  liability
  for such deposit shall cease.
    (c)  The  costs  in  all  actions  against a private banker to recover
  deposits shall be in the discretion of the court,  and  may  be  charged
  upon the fund affected by the action.
    7.  (a)  A private banker need not recognize or give any effect to (1)
  any claim to a deposit of cash, securities, or other  property  standing
  on  his  books  to the credit of, or held by him for the account of, any
  corporation, firm or association  in  occupied  territory,  or  (2)  any
  advice,  statute,  rule  or  regulation  purporting to cancel or to give
  notice of the cancellation of the authority of any person  at  the  time
  appearing  on the books of such private banker as authorized to withdraw
  or otherwise dispose of cash, securities,  or  other  property  of  such
  corporation, firm or association, unless such private banker is required
  so  to  do  by  appropriate  process  procured against him in a court of
  competent  jurisdiction  in  the  United  States  in  a  cause   therein
  instituted  by  or in the name of such corporation, firm or association,
  or unless the person making such claim or giving such advice or invoking
  such statute, rule or regulation, as the case may be, shall  execute  to
  such private banker, in form and with sureties acceptable to him, a bond
  indemnifying  him  from  any  and all liability, loss, damage, costs and
  expenses for and on account of recognizing or giving any effect to  such
  claim, advice, statute, rule or regulation.
    (b)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision  (1) the term "occupied
  territory"  shall  mean  territory  occupied  by  a  dominant  authority
  asserting  governmental,  military  or police powers of any kind in such
  territory, but not recognized by  the  United  States  as  the  de  jure
  government  of  such  territory,  and (2) the term "corporation, firm or
  association in occupied territory" shall mean  a  corporation,  firm  or
  association  which  has,  or at any time has had, a place of business in
  territory which has at any time been occupied territory.
    (c) The foregoing provisions of this subdivision  shall  be  effective
  only in cases where (1) such claim or advice purports or appears to have
  been  sent from, or is reasonably believed to have been sent pursuant to
  orders originating in, such occupied  territory  during  the  period  of
  occupation,  or  (2)  such  statute,  rule or regulation appears to have
  emanated from such dominant authority and purports to be or to have been
  in force in such occupied territory during the period of occupation.
    (d) The foregoing  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  apply  to
  claims,  advices,  statutes, rules or regulations made, given or invoked
  either prior to, or on or subsequent to the effective date of this act.


::: 172:restrictions_on_investments.html
 
    &#167; 172.  Restrictions  on  investments.  1.  Every  private banker may,
  subject to the limitations and restrictions contained in  this  article,
  make  such  investments of funds held by him as a private banker in real
  or personal securities, or personal property,  as  are  consistent  with
  safety and prudence of management.
    2.  No  private banker shall appropriate to his own use or lend to any
  person with whom he is  associated  as  a  partner,  or  invest  in  any
  business  conducted  by a partnership of which he is a member, any funds
  held by him as a private banker.
    3. No private banker shall, after  June  thirtieth,  nineteen  hundred
  thirty-eight,  make  with funds held by him as a private banker any loan
  to, or investment in the capital stock  of,  any  corporation  of  which
  fifty per centum of the capital stock is owned or controlled directly or
  indirectly,  or  as a result of any such investment would be so owned or
  controlled by such private  banker,  as  a  private  banker  and  as  an
  individual,  or  if  such  private  banker  is  a  partnership,  by such
  partnership and the individual members thereof, if as a  result  thereof
  the total amount of outstanding loans and investments so made after such
  date will exceed ten per centum of his permanent capital with respect to
  any  one  such corporation, or will exceed twenty-five per centum of his
  permanent capital with respect to all such corporations.


::: 173:rate_of_interest_effect_of_usury.html
 
    &#167; 173.  Rate  of interest; effect of usury. 1. No private banker shall
  take, receive, reserve or charge on any loan or discount made,  or  upon
  any  note,  bill  of  exchange  or  other  evidence of debt, interest as
  computed pursuant to this section, at  a  rate  greater  than  the  rate
  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  of  financial  services pursuant to
  section fourteen-a  of  this  chapter,  or,  if  no  rate  has  been  so
  prescribed,  six per centum per annum, or two dollars if the interest so
  computed is less than  that  amount.  Such  interest  may  be  taken  in
  advance, reckoning the days for which the note, bill or evidence of debt
  has  to  run.  The  knowingly taking, receiving, reserving or charging a
  greater rate of interest shall be held and adjudged a forfeiture of  the
  entire  interest  which  the note, bill of exchange or other evidence of
  debt carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. If  a
  greater  rate  of  interest has been paid, the person paying the same or
  his legal representatives may recover twice the  entire  amount  of  the
  interest  thus  paid  from the private banker. The purchase, discount or
  sale of a bona fide bill of exchange, note or  other  evidence  of  debt
  payable  at  another  place than the place of such purchase, discount or
  sale at not more than the current rate of exchange for sight draft, or a
  reasonable charge for the collection of the same,  in  addition  to  the
  interest,  shall  not  be considered interest for the purpose of any law
  regulating the maximum rate of interest which may be charged,  taken  or
  received.
    Anything    contained    in   this   subdivision   to   the   contrary
  notwithstanding, the charging of interest  or  discount  on  a  loan  or
  discount  at an office of a private banker located outside of the states
  of the United States of America and the District of Columbia at  a  rate
  allowed  by  the  laws  of the country, territory, dependency, province,
  dominion, insular possession or other political subdivision  where  such
  office  is  located,  or  the  acquisition by a private banker of a part
  interest or the entire interest in any loan or  discount  heretofore  or
  hereafter  made  by  a  bank  or  trust  company  or  any  other banking
  institution at an office located outside of the  states  of  the  United
  States of America and the District of Columbia, shall not be a violation
  of this section.
    1-a.   Anything   contained   in   this   section   to   the  contrary
  notwithstanding,  any  private  banker,  in  purchasing   or   otherwise
  acquiring,  any  note or other evidence of debt, which has arisen out of
  the sale of personal property or the performance of services  on  credit
  and  which is repayable in instalments from the payee or holder thereof,
  may take, receive, reserve or charge an amount not exceeding twelve  per
  centum  per annum, computed pursuant to this section on unpaid principal
  balances, or the sum of ten dollars, whichever is the greater; provided,
  however, that nothing contained in this subdivision  shall  authorize  a
  private  banker to take, receive, reserve or charge upon the purchase or
  other acquisition of any two or more notes or other evidences  of  debt,
  arising out of the same transaction, an amount greater than such private
  banker  would  be entitled to take, receive, reserve or charge if all of
  such obligations constituted a single obligation. In the event that  the
  private  banker insures, under a group insurance policy, the life of the
  person primarily liable on any such obligation, or in the event that the
  private banker requires insurance on personal property securing any such
  obligation, the actual cost of such insurance may be added to the amount
  which such private banker may take, receive, reserve or charge upon  the
  purchase or other acquisition of such obligation. This subdivision shall
  not  be  in  derogation of any powers, rights or privileges possessed by
  any private banker prior to the effective date this subdivision.
    2. Upon advances of money repayable on demand to an  amount  not  less
  than  five  thousand  dollars  made  upon  warehouse  receipts, bills of
  lading,  certificates  of  stock,  certificates  of  deposit,  bills  of
  exchange,  bonds  or other negotiable instruments, pledged as collateral
  security for such repayment, a private banker may receive or contract to
  receive  and  collect  as  compensation for making such advances any sum
  which may be agreed upon by the parties to such transaction.
    3. Upon an advance of money, whether or not repayable on demand, to an
  amount not less than five thousand dollars, made upon documents of title
  within article seven  of  the  uniform  commercial  code  or  negotiable
  instruments  within  article  three  or  article  eight  of  the uniform
  commercial code pledged as collateral security for such  repayment,  any
  private  banker  may  receive  or  contract  to  receive  and collect as
  compensation for making such advance any sum which may be agreed upon by
  the parties to such transaction; provided that such advance is (a) to or
  for any partner of  a  firm  which  is  a  member  firm  of  a  national
  securities   exchange   registered  with  the  securities  and  exchange
  commission  as  a  national  securities  exchange  under   the   federal
  securities  exchange  act of 1934, as amended, to enable such partner to
  make a contribution of capital to such firm or to purchase stock  of  an
  affiliated  corporation  of  such  firm,  provided  that such partner is
  actively engaged in the business of such  firm  and  devotes  the  major
  portion  of his time thereto, or (b) to or for any person who is or will
  become a holder of stock of a corporation which is a member  corporation
  of such a national securities exchange to enable such person to purchase
  stock  of  such  corporation  or  to  purchase  stock  of  an affiliated
  corporation of such corporation, provided that such person  is  actively
  engaged  in  the  business  of  such  corporation  and devotes the major
  portion of his time thereto.


::: 174:restrictions_on_purchases_of_and_loans_on_real_estate.html
 
    &#167; 174.  Restrictions on purchases of, and loans on real estate.  1. No
  private banker shall purchase with funds held by him as  private  banker
  any  real  estate  except a plot upon which there is or may be erected a
  building suitable for the convenient transaction of  his  business;  nor
  make a loan of such funds upon the security of real estate, if such real
  estate  is  unimproved, in excess of two-thirds, and if such real estate
  is improved by a building or  buildings  or  is  to  be  improved  by  a
  building  or buildings in the process of construction, the major portion
  of which building or buildings is used, or in the  case  of  a  building
  under   construction   is   to   be  used,  for  residential,  business,
  manufacturing or agricultural purposes, in excess of  three-fourths,  of
  the  appraised  value  of  such  real estate, or in an amount which when
  added to the amount unpaid upon prior mortgages, liens and  encumbrances
  upon  such  real  estate exceeds the foregoing respective proportions of
  such appraised value, or if such real  estate  is  subject  to  a  prior
  mortgage,  lien  or  encumbrance  and  the amount unpaid upon such prior
  mortgage, lien or encumbrance or the aggregate amount  unpaid  upon  all
  prior  mortgages,  liens  and encumbrances exceeds ten per centum of the
  permanent capital of such private banker.
    2. All real estate acquired by a private  banker  in  satisfaction  or
  reduction  of  loans  of funds held by him as a private banker, shall be
  sold within five years from the date  of  its  acquisition,  unless  the
  superintendent  upon application shall extend the time within which such
  sale shall be made.


::: 175:books_and_records.html
 
    &#167; 175.  Books and records. 1. Every private banker shall keep separate
  and complete books of account in which shall  be  promptly  entered  the
  details  of all business transacted by him as a private banker including
  statements in detail of the liabilities incurred by  him  as  a  private
  banker and of the securities or property in which funds held by him as a
  private banker have been invested.
    2.  Every  private  banker shall conform his or her methods of keeping
  his or her books and records to such orders in respect thereto as  shall
  have been made and promulgated by the superintendent pursuant to article
  two  of this chapter. Any private banker who refuses or neglects to obey
  any such order shall be subject to a penalty of an amount as  determined
  pursuant  to  section  forty-four of this chapter for each day that such
  refusal or neglect continues.
    3. Every private banker shall preserve all his records of final entry,
  including cards used under the card system and deposit  tickets,  for  a
  period  of  at  least six years from the date of making the same or from
  the date of the last entry thereon; provided, however, that preservation
  of photographic reproduction thereof or  records  in  photographic  form
  shall constitute compliance with the requirements of this section.


::: 176:reports_required_by_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167; 176.  Reports  required  by  superintendent;  penalty for failure to
  make.  Within fifteen days after service upon any private banker of  the
  notice  provided  for  by section thirty-seven of this chapter, he shall
  make a written report to the superintendent of the  financial  condition
  of  his business as a private banker, which report shall be in such form
  and shall contain such information as the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  prescribe. Such report shall be published by such private
  banker in such manner as the superintendent of  financial  services  may
  prescribe in a newspaper published in the place where the office of such
  private  banker  is  located or if no newspaper is published there, in a
  newspaper of general circulation in such place.
    Every private banker shall also make such other special reports to the
  superintendent as he may from time to time require in such form  and  on
  such  dates  as  may  be prescribed by the superintendent, which reports
  shall if required by the superintendent be verified in such form  as  he
  may prescribe.
    If  any  private banker shall fail to make any report required by this
  section on or before the date designated for the making thereof or shall
  fail to include therein any prescribed matter, such private banker shall
  forfeit to the people of the state an amount as determined  pursuant  to
  section  forty-four-a  of  this  chapter  for every day that such report
  shall be delayed or withheld and for every day that he or she shall fail
  to report any such omitted matter, unless the time therefor  shall  have
  been  extended by the superintendent, as provided in article two of this
  chapter.


::: 177:official_communications_from_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 177.  Official  communications  from  superintendent. Every official
  communication, as defined in article two of this  chapter,  directed  to
  any  private  banker, shall, if such private banker is a partnership, be
  submitted by the person receiving it to the members thereof  present  at
  their next meeting and duly noted on the records of such private banker.


::: 178:business_of_deceased_private_banker_continuation_liquidation.html
 
    &#167; 178. Business of deceased private banker; continuation; liquidation.
  In  case  of  the  death  of  an individual engaged in the business of a
  private   banker,   his   executor,   administrator   or   other   legal
  representative, and in case of the death of a member of a partnership so
  engaged,  the  surviving  members  of the partnership, may continue such
  business for a period of six months from the date of such death if  such
  continuation  is  necessary,  in order to bring about the liquidation of
  such business.   If the liquidation shall  not  have  been  accomplished
  within such period of six months, the superintendent may extend the time
  for  a further period not to exceed one year or may, at his option, take
  over such private banking business and complete the liquidation, but the
  provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to the business  of  such
  deceased  private  banker while the business is being continued pursuant
  to the provisions  of  this  section.  Nothing  herein  contained  shall
  prevent  the  surviving  partner  or  partners  of  or  a successor to a
  deceased private banker from applying for and  receiving,  if  otherwise
  entitled  thereto, an authorization certificate to engage in business as
  a private banker.


::: 179:effect_of_revocation_of_authorization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 179.  Effect  of  revocation of authorization certificate.  Whenever
  the superintendent shall have revoked the authorization  certificate  of
  any  private  banker,  and  shall  have  taken  the  action to make such
  revocation effective specified in article two of this chapter,  all  the
  rights and privileges resulting from such authorization, shall forthwith
  cease and determine.


::: 18-a:application_fees.html
 
    &#167; 18-a. Application fees. 1. The provisions of this section shall only
  be  applicable  to  applications  for  which  a  fee is authorized to be
  imposed  by  any  other  provision  of  this  chapter   or   regulations
  promulgated thereunder.
    2.  The  fees set forth in this section may be imposed notwithstanding
  any fee amount set forth in any other provision of this chapter  or  the
  regulations promulgated thereunder.
    3.  As  used in this section, "applications" shall include notices and
  similar filings.
    4. The fee which shall be imposed for any application for  an  initial
  license,  registration,  incorporation or for the formation of any other
  entity pursuant to this chapter, or for a merger, acquisition,  purchase
  or  sale  of  assets,  change  of  control, or for any other application
  requiring the approval of the superintendent that  may  necessitate,  as
  determined   by   the  superintendent,  a  determination  regarding  the
  character or fitness and/or the safety and soundness of  such  applicant
  or a similar investigative undertaking by the department, shall be:
    (a) twelve thousand five hundred dollars when such application relates
  to  a  banking organization, bank holding company or, except as provided
  in paragraph (b) of this subdivision, a foreign banking corporation;
    (b) seven thousand five hundred dollars when such application  relates
  to  licensing  a  branch,  agency  or representative office of a foreign
  banking corporation;
    (c) one thousand five hundred dollars when the application relates  to
  a mortgage broker; or
    (d) three thousand dollars for all other such applications.
    5.  The  fee  for  any other application requiring the approval of the
  superintendent, including, but not limited to, any application  required
  to  change  the  name  of  the  applicant,  open  branches or offices or
  additional  locations,  or  relocate  an  existing  branch,  office,  or
  location,  and  any other application not subject to subdivision four of
  this section, shall be:
    (a) seven hundred fifty dollars when  the  application  relates  to  a
  banking  organization,  bank  holding  company, out-of-state state bank,
  foreign credit union, or foreign banking corporation;
    (b) two thousand dollars when the application relates to the licensing
  of an additional location or change of location or the  licensing  of  a
  mobile unit of a licensed casher of checks; or
    (c) five hundred dollars for all other such applications.
    6.  The  superintendent,  in  his or her sole discretion, may waive or
  reduce the amount of the fee to be imposed  pursuant  to  this  section,
  either on a case-by-case basis or, by regulation, generally with respect
  to a type of application, if the superintendent determines that:
    (a) the payment of such fee would impose an economic hardship upon the
  applicant;
    (b)  the  amount of such fee is excessive with respect to the expenses
  incurred by the department of financial  services  to  investigate  such
  application; or
    (c)  such  waiver  or reduction (i) serves the interests of interstate
  administrative reciprocity or multi-state regulatory  cooperation;  (ii)
  facilitates  the administration of the department of financial services;
  or (iii) is otherwise appropriate.


::: 180:prohibitions_against_encroachment_upon_certain_powers_of_private_bankers_savings_banks_and_savings_and_loan_associations.html
 
    &#167; 180.  Prohibitions  against  encroachment  upon  certain  powers  of
  private bankers, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Except
  as authorized by this chapter, no individual, either for himself  or  as
  trustee, and no partnership or unincorporated association shall:
    (1) Engage in the business of receiving deposits;
    (2)  Make  use  of  the  words  "bank,"  "banker"  or "banking" or any
  derivative or compound of any such words or  any  word  or  words  in  a
  foreign  language  having  the  same  or  similar  meanings in any sign,
  advertisement, circular, letterhead  or  in  other  written  or  printed
  matter,   in  such  manner  as  might  indicate  that  such  individual,
  partnership or unincorporated association is  authorized  to  engage  in
  business as a bank or private banker;
    (3) As principal, agent or trustee engage in the business of receiving
  payments of money in installments, for cooperative, mutual loan, savings
  or  investment  purposes  in sums of less than five hundred dollars each
  under a declaration of trust or otherwise;
    (4) Personally or by the publication or circulation of  advertisements
  solicit  such  payment of money to any unauthorized individual, trustee,
  partnership  or  unincorporated  association  or  the  execution  of   a
  declaration of trust to or a contract with, any unauthorized individual,
  trustee,  partnership  or  unincorporated  association, under which such
  payments will become due and payable;
    (5) Engage in or conduct a business  similar  to  the  business  of  a
  savings  bank  or  of a savings and loan association, or promise to make
  loans at any time, either fixed or uncertain, upon real estate  security
  for   building,  home-owning,  savings  or  investment  purposes  as  an
  inducement for the payment of sums of money in installments of less than
  five  hundred  dollars  each  to  any  unauthorized   person,   trustee,
  partnership or unincorporated association;
    (6)  Engage  in  the business of transmitting money or receiving money
  for transmission in  any  manner  whatsoever;  provided,  however,  that
  nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  shall  apply  to an individual,
  partnership or  unincorporated  association  licensed  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of article thirteen-B of this chapter.
    Any  person  who  shall violate any provision of this section shall be
  guilty of a misdemeanor.


::: 181:exemptions_of_certain_private_bankers.html
 
    &#167; 181.  Exemptions of certain private bankers. 1. Every individual and
  partnership  conducting  the  business  of  a  private  banker  on  June
  thirtieth,  nineteen  hundred thirty-eight, pursuant to an authorization
  certificate issued by the  superintendent  may  thereafter  continue  to
  conduct such business under the authority of such existing authorization
  certificate.
    2.  Nothing  in this article shall be construed to render unlawful the
  continued ownership or holding by a private banker of  any  investments,
  loans,  or  other  real  or personal property lawfully acquired prior to
  June thirtieth, nineteen hundred thirty-eight.


::: 18:fees_for_copies_and_certifications.html
 
    &#167; 18.   Fees   for  copies  and  certifications.  Notwithstanding  any
  provision of this chapter to the contrary, for every copy of  any  paper
  filed   in  the  department  and  for  the  certification  thereof,  the
  superintendent  may  charge  such   amounts   by   regulation   as   the
  superintendent,  in  his  or  her  discretion, determines to be fair and
  reasonable.


::: 190:application_of_article_definition.html
 
    &#167; 190. Application of article; definition. This article shall apply to
  banks, trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan associations and
  foreign banking corporations licensed, pursuant to section twenty-six of
  this  chapter,  to  maintain  a  branch in the state, as those terms are
  defined, respectively, in subdivisions  one,  two,  four  and  eight  of
  section  two,  and  subdivision  five  of  section  two  hundred of this
  chapter. As used in this article, the term "banking  institution"  shall
  mean and include banks, trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan
  associations  and  foreign  banking  corporations  licensed, pursuant to
  section twenty-six of this chapter, to maintain a branch in  the  state,
  as so defined.


::: 191:public_accommodation_offices_authorized.html
 
    &#167; 191.  Public accommodation offices authorized. A banking institution
  may apply for the approval of the superintendent to establish,  maintain
  and  operate not more than one public accommodation office as an adjunct
  to its principal office, and not  more  than  one  public  accommodation
  office  as  an  adjunct  to  each  branch  office  now occupied by it or
  hereafter lawfully opened and occupied by it, provided, however, that no
  public accommodation office may be established  as  an  adjunct  to  any
  electronic  facility established pursuant to section one hundred five-a,
  two hundred forty-a or three hundred ninety-six-a of this chapter.


::: 192:location_of_public_accommodation_office.html
 
    &#167; 192.  Location  of  public  accommodation  office.  1.  Each  public
  accommodation office established  pursuant  to  this  article  shall  be
  located  in  the  same  city,  town  or  village  in  which  the banking
  institution maintains the office  of  which  such  public  accommodation
  office  is  an  adjunct  and within one thousand feet from the principal
  office or branch office of the banking institution of  which  it  is  an
  adjunct.
    2. For the purposes of this article, distances shall be measured along
  a straight line drawn between the wall of the principal office or branch
  office  of  a  banking  institution  and  the nearest wall of the public
  accommodation office.


::: 193:limitation_upon_business_which_may_be_transacted_at_public_accommodation_office.html
 
    &#167; 193.  Limitation  upon  business  which  may be transacted at public
  accommodation  office.  No  business  other  than  that   actually   and
  necessarily  involved  in connection with the performance of one or more
  of the functions enumerated in this section shall be transacted  at  any
  public accommodation office:
    (a)  the  receipt  of  deposits  of  money, currency, checks and other
  similar items;
    (b) the payment of withdrawals;
    (c) the cashing of checks, drafts and other similar items;
    (d) the receipt of moneys due to the banking institution;
    (e) the issuance of cashier's checks, treasurer's checks, money orders
  and other similar items; and
    (f) the disbursement of funds pursuant to an existing  loan  agreement
  or extension of credit which provides for advances to or for the account
  of  the  borrower,  by  means  of  honoring  one or more checks or other
  written orders or by use of a credit card or other similar arrangement.
    Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize  the
  performance  of  any  function  or  the  rendition of any service in any
  public accommodation  office  which  such  banking  institution  is  not
  otherwise authorized to engage in by other provisions of this chapter or
  other law.


::: 194:public_accommodation_office_not_deemed_branch_office.html
 
    &#167; 194.  Public accommodation office not deemed branch office. A public
  accommodation office shall not be deemed a branch office as that term is
  used in this chapter and shall not be subject to any other provision  of
  this  chapter  specifically  relating  to  the  establishment  of branch
  offices. Each public accommodation office  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an
  integral part of the banking institution or branch office of which it is
  an  adjunct,  and  all  business transacted at such public accommodation
  office shall be deemed to be transacted at the office of which it is  an
  adjunct.


::: 195:rules_regulations_and_orders.html
 
    &#167; 195.  Rules,  regulations  and orders. The superintendent shall have
  power to adopt, amend and enforce such rules, regulations and orders  as
  the  superintendent  may  deem necessary to enable the superintendent to
  administer and carry out the provisions of this article and  to  prevent
  evasions thereof.


::: 19:assessments_for_deficiency_in_reserves_against_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 19. Assessments for deficiency in reserves against deposits.  If any
  banking  organization  or  branch of a foreign banking corporation shall
  not maintain the total  reserves  prescribed  by  or  pursuant  to  this
  chapter,  the  superintendent  may  levy  an assessment upon it for such
  period as any deficiency in its total  reserves  amounting  to  one  per
  centum or more of its deposits against which reserves are required to be
  maintained shall continue, at rates not in excess of the following:
    (1)  Six  per  centum per annum upon any such deficiency not exceeding
  two per centum of such deposits.
    (2) Eight per centum per  annum  upon  any  additional  deficiency  in
  excess of two and not exceeding three per centum of such deposits.
    (3)  Ten per centum per annum upon any additional deficiency in excess
  of three and not exceeding four per centum of such deposits.
    (4) Twelve  per  centum  per  annum  upon  any  additional  deficiency
  therein.


::: 1:short_title.html
 
    &#167; 1. Short  title.  This  chapter,  together  with amendments thereof,
  shall be known as the "banking law", and  shall  be  applicable  to  all
  corporations,  partnerships  and individuals defined in the next section
  and   to   such   other   corporations,   unincorporated   associations,
  partnerships  and  individuals  as  shall  subject themselves to special
  provisions thereof, or who shall, by violating any  of  its  provisions,
  become subject to the penalties provided therein.


::: 2-a:limited_liability_investment_company_definitions.html
 
    &#167; 2-a.  Limited  liability  investment  company; definitions. When the
  provisions of this chapter are applied to the formation and operation of
  a limited liability investment company references to:
    1. "Board of directors" shall include the managers  charged  with  the
  management of a limited liability investment company as set forth in its
  articles of organization.
    2.  "By-laws"  shall  include  the  operating  agreement  of a limited
  liability investment company.
    3. "Capital stock" shall include the cash and property the members  of
  a  limited liability investment company have contributed to the company,
  but  shall  not  include  promissory  notes,  or  other  obligations  to
  contribute cash or property or to perform future services.
    4.  "Corporation"  shall  include an unincorporated investment company
  formed as  a  limited  liability  investment  company  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of article twelve of this chapter.
    5.  "Director"  shall  include  one  of  the managers charged with the
  management of a limited liability investment company as set forth in its
  articles of organization.
    6. "Dividend" shall include the distribution of  a  limited  liability
  investment company's cash or other assets to its members.
    7.  "Incorporator"  shall  include the person or persons who is or are
  the organizer or organizers of a limited liability investment company.
    8.  "Organization  certificate"  shall   include   the   articles   of
  organization of a limited liability investment company.
    9.  "Share" shall include the equity interest of a member of a limited
  liability investment company as set forth in the company's  articles  of
  organization or, in the absence of such a provision, the equity interest
  represented  by a member's right to a proportionate share of the profits
  of the company.
    10. "Stock" shall include  the  equity  interest  represented  by  the
  percentage  of  the  total  votes  a member may cast as set forth in the
  articles of organization of a limited liability investment  company  or,
  in the absence of such a provision, the equity interest represented by a
  member's right to a proportionate share of the profits of the company.
    11.  "Stockholder"  shall  include  a  member  of  a limited liability
  investment company who has an equity interest represented by his or  her
  right to a proportionate share of the profits or capital of the company.
    12.  "Voting stock" shall include the definition of stock as set forth
  in this section.


::: 2-b:limited_liability_trust_companies_definitions.html
 
    &#167;  2-b.  Limited  liability  trust  companies;  definitions.  When the
  provisions of this chapter are applied to the formation and operation of
  a limited liability trust company references to:
    1. "Board of directors" shall include the managers  charged  with  the
  management  of  a  limited  liability  trust company as set forth in its
  articles of organization.
    2. "By-laws" shall  include  the  operating  agreement  of  a  limited
  liability trust company.
    3.  "Capital stock" shall include the cash and property the members of
  a limited liability trust company have contributed to the  company,  but
  shall  not  include  promissory notes or other obligations to contribute
  cash or property or to perform future services.
    4. "Corporation" shall include an unincorporated trust company  formed
  as  a  limited  liability  trust  company  pursuant to the provisions of
  article three of this chapter.
    5. "Director" shall include one  of  the  managers  charged  with  the
  management  of  a  limited  liability  trust company as set forth in its
  articles of organization.
    6. "Dividend" shall include the distribution of  a  limited  liability
  trust company's cash or other assets to its members.
    7.  "Incorporator"  shall  include the person or persons who is or are
  the organizer or organizers of a limited liability trust company.
    8.  "Organization  certificate"  shall   include   the   articles   of
  organization of a limited liability trust company.
    9.  "Share" shall include the equity interest of a member of a limited
  liability trust company as  set  forth  in  the  company's  articles  of
  organization or, in the absence of such a provision, the equity interest
  represented  by a member's right to a proportionate share of the profits
  of the company.
    10. "Stock" shall include  the  equity  interest  represented  by  the
  percentage  of  the  total  votes  a member may cast as set forth in the
  articles of organization of a limited liability trust company or, in the
  absence of such a  provision,  the  equity  interest  represented  by  a
  member's right to a proportionate share of the profits of the company.
    11.  "Stockholder" shall include a member of a limited liability trust
  company who has an equity interest represented by his, her, or its right
  to a proportionate share of the profits or capital of the company.
    12. "Voting stock" shall include the definition of stock as set  forth
  in this section.


::: 200-a:actions_maintained_by_a_foreign_banking_corporation.html
 
  &#167; 200-a. Actions maintained by a foreign banking corporation.
    In  maintaining  an  action  or  special  proceeding  in this state, a
  foreign banking corporation shall maintain such action or proceeding  in
  like manner and subject to the same limitations as are applicable in the
  case of an action or special proceeding maintained by a domestic banking
  organization, except as otherwise prescribed by statute.


::: 200-b:actions_maintained_against_foreign_banking_corporation_residents_foreign_corporations_foreign_banking_corporations_as_nonresidents.html
 
  &#167; 200-b. Actions   maintained   against   foreign  banking  corporation;
             residents; foreign corporations, foreign banking corporations
             as non-residents.
    1.  An  action  or  special  proceeding  against  a  foreign   banking
  corporation  may be maintained by a resident of this state for any cause
  of action.  For purposes of this subdivision one, the term "resident  of
  this  state"  shall include any corporation formed under any law of this
  state.
    2. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an action or  special
  proceeding  against  a  foreign banking corporation may be maintained by
  another foreign corporation or  foreign  banking  corporation  or  by  a
  non-resident in the following cases only:
    (a) where the action is brought to recover damages for the breach of a
  contract  made  or  to  be  performed  within this state, or relating to
  property situated within this state at the time of  the  making  of  the
  contract;
    (b) where the subject matter of the litigation is situated within this
  state;
    (c)  where  the  cause of action arose within this state, except where
  the object of the action or special proceeding is to affect the title of
  real property situated outside this state;
    (d) where the action or special proceeding is based on a liability for
  acts done within this state by a foreign banking corporation;
    (e) where  the  defendant  is  a  foreign  banking  corporation  doing
  business in this state.
    3.  The  limitations  contained  in  subdivision two do not apply to a
  corporation formed and existing under the laws of the United States  and
  which maintains an office in this state.


::: 200-c:maintenance_of_books_accounts_and_records.html
 
    &#167; 200-c.  Maintenance  of  books,  accounts and records. Every foreign
  banking corporation licensed pursuant to this chapter to maintain one or
  more branches, agencies or representative offices in  this  state  shall
  maintain  or make available at any such branch, agency or representative
  office appropriate  books,  accounts  and  records  reflecting  (i)  all
  transactions  effected  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  branch,  agency  or
  representative office and (ii)  all  actions  taken  in  this  state  by
  employees  of  the  foreign banking corporation located in this state to
  effect transactions on behalf of any  office  of  such  foreign  banking
  corporation located outside this state.


::: 2001:general_corporate_powers.html
 
    &#167; 2001.  General corporate powers. 1. Every corporation shall have, in
  addition to all other powers  granted  by  this  chapter  or  any  other
  statute of this state, the following powers:
    (a) To sue and be sued in all courts and to participate in actions and
  proceedings, whether judicial, administrative, arbitrative or otherwise,
  in like cases as natural persons.
    (b)  To have a corporate seal, and to alter such seal at pleasure, and
  to use it by causing it or a facsimile to be  affixed  or  impressed  or
  reproduced in any other manner.
    (c)  To  adopt,  amend  or repeal by-laws, including emergency by-laws
  made pursuant to subdivision sixteen of  section  twelve  of  the  state
  emergency  defense act, relating to the business of the corporation, the
  conduct of its affairs, its rights or powers or the rights or powers  of
  its stockholders, directors or officers.
    (d)  To  make  donations,  irrespective  of corporate benefit, for the
  public welfare or for community fund, hospital, charitable, educational,
  scientific, civic or similar purposes, and  in  time  of  war  or  other
  national emergency in aid thereof.
    (e)  To pay pensions, establish and carry out pension, profit-sharing,
  savings, thrift and  other  retirement,  incentive  and  benefit  plans,
  trusts  and  provisions  for  any  or all of its directors, officers and
  employees.
    (f) To have perpetual existence.
    2. Every corporation, subject to any  limitations  or  other  specific
  provisions  contained in this chapter or any other statute of this state
  or its organization certificate, shall have such of the following powers
  as shall be appropriate in conducting the business of the corporation:
    (a) To purchase, receive, take by  grant,  gift,  devise,  bequest  or
  otherwise,  lease, or otherwise acquire, own, hold, improve, employ, use
  and otherwise deal in and  with,  real  or  personal  property,  or  any
  interest therein, wherever situated.
    (b)  To  sell,  convey, lease, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose
  of, all or any  of  its  property  or  any  interest  therein,  wherever
  situated.
    (c) To make contracts, give guarantees and incur liabilities.
    (d)  To  do  business,  carry  on its operations, and have offices and
  exercise the powers granted by this chapter in any  jurisdiction  within
  or without the United States.
    (e)  To  elect  or appoint officers, employees and other agents of the
  corporation,  define  their  duties,  fix  their  compensation  and  the
  compensation of directors, and to indemnify corporate personnel.
    (f)  To  be a promoter, partner, member, associate or manager of other
  business enterprises or ventures, or to  the  extent  permitted  in  any
  other  jurisdiction  to  be an incorporator of other corporations of any
  type  or  kind;  provided,  however,  that  nothing  contained  in  this
  paragraph  shall  authorize  a  banking  organization  to  engage in any
  activity not otherwise  authorized  by  the  laws  of  New  York  or  by
  regulations of the superintendent.
    (g)  To have and exercise all other powers necessary or appropriate in
  conducting the business of the corporation.


::: 200:when_foreign_banking_corporation_may_transact_business_in_this_state.html
 
    &#167; 200.  When foreign banking corporation may transact business in this
  state. No foreign banking corporation, other than a bank organized under
  the laws of the United States, shall transact in this state the business
  of buying, selling, paying  or  collecting  bills  of  exchange,  or  of
  issuing  letters  of  credit  or  of receiving money for transmission or
  transmitting the same by draft, check, cable or otherwise, or of  making
  loans,  or  of receiving deposits, or of exercising the fiduciary powers
  specified in section two hundred one-b of this chapter,  or  transacting
  any  part  of  such  business,  or maintaining in this state its initial
  agency or branch for carrying on such business,  or  any  part  thereof,
  unless such corporation shall have:
    1.  Been authorized by its charter to carry on such business and shall
  have complied with the laws of the state or country under  which  it  is
  incorporated;
    2.  Furnished  to  the  superintendent such proof as to the nature and
  character of its business and as to its financial condition  as  he  may
  require;
    3.  Filed  in  the  office  of  the superintendent (a) a duly executed
  instrument  in  writing,  by  its  terms  of  indefinite  duration   and
  irrevocable, appointing the superintendent and his or her successors its
  true  and  lawful  attorney,  upon  whom  all  process  in any action or
  proceeding against it on a cause of action arising out of a  transaction
  with  its  New  York  agency  or  agencies or branch or branches, may be
  served with the  same  force  and  effect  as  if  it  were  a  domestic
  corporation  and  had been lawfully served with process within the state
  and (b) a written certificate of designation, which may be changed  from
  time  to  time  thereafter  by  the  filing  of  a  new  certificate  of
  designation, specifying the name and address of the  officer,  agent  or
  other   person   to   whom  such  process  shall  be  forwarded  by  the
  superintendent;
    4. Received a license duly issued  to  it  by  the  superintendent  as
  provided  in  article  two of this chapter and, in the case of a foreign
  banking corporation desiring to exercise the fiduciary powers  specified
  in  section  two  hundred  one-b  of  this chapter, or any part thereof,
  received a certificate  of  authorization  duly  issued  to  it  by  the
  superintendent as provided in such section two hundred one-b.
    This  section  shall  not  be  construed  to  prohibit foreign banking
  corporations which do not maintain an  office  in  this  state  for  the
  transaction  of  business from (1) making loans in this state secured by
  mortgages on real property, nor from contracting in this  state  with  a
  banking institution engaged in the business of banking under the laws of
  this  state  to  acquire from or through such banking institution a part
  interest or the entire interest in a loan or evidence of debt which such
  banking institution has  heretofore  or  hereafter  made,  purchased  or
  acquired,  for  its  own  account  or  otherwise,  together  with a like
  interest in any security and any  security  instrument  proposed  to  be
  given  or  heretofore or hereafter given to secure or evidence such loan
  or evidence of debt; (2) enforcing in this state obligations  heretofore
  or  hereafter  acquired  by it in the transaction of business outside of
  this state, or in the transaction of any  business  authorized  by  this
  section;  (3)  acquiring, holding, leasing, mortgaging, contracting with
  respect to, or otherwise protecting or conveying property in this  state
  heretofore  or hereafter assigned, transferred, mortgaged or conveyed to
  it as security for, or in whole or part satisfaction of a loan or  loans
  made  by it or obligations acquired by it in the transaction of business
  outside of this state, or in the transaction of any business  authorized
  by this section.
    If  any  foreign banking corporation has opened and occupied an agency
  or branch in this state pursuant to the provisions of this  chapter,  it
  may,  unless otherwise advised by the superintendent, open and occupy an
  additional agency or branch, as the case may be, without having to apply
  for  the  approval  of  the  superintendent,  provided that it gives the
  superintendent notice of at least thirty days (or such shorter period as
  the superintendent in individual cases may approve) before  opening  and
  occupying any such additional office.


::: 201-a:rights_and_privileges_of_foreign_banking_corporation_under_license_effect_of_revocation.html
 
    &#167; 201-a.  Rights  and  privileges of foreign banking corporation under
  license; effect of revocation. 1. When  the  superintendent  shall  have
  issued  a  license  as provided in section twenty-six of this chapter to
  any such foreign banking corporation, it  may  engage  in  the  business
  specified  in  sections  two hundred and two hundred one of this article
  either as an agency or as a branch at the  location  specified  in  such
  license  for  a  period  not  exceeding  one  year from the date of such
  license  or,  if  such  license  so  provides,  until  such  license  is
  surrendered  or revoked. A license issued for a period not exceeding one
  year may, upon  the  approval  of  the  superintendent,  be  renewed  as
  provided in section twenty-six of this chapter. No such license shall be
  transferable  or  assignable.  Every  such license shall be at all times
  conspicuously displayed in the place of business specified  therein.  In
  the   event   that   such   license  shall  have  been  revoked  by  the
  superintendent, as provided in article two of this chapter, it shall  be
  surrendered  to  the  superintendent within twenty-four hours after such
  corporation has received written notice of such revocation.
    2. Whenever the superintendent shall have revoked any such license and
  shall have taken the action to make such revocation effective  specified
  in  article  two  of this chapter, all the rights and privileges of such
  foreign banking corporation to transact the business thus licensed shall
  forthwith cease and determine.


::: 201-b:fiduciary_powers_of_foreign_banking_corporations.html
 
    &#167; 201-b.  Fiduciary  powers  of  foreign  banking  corporations. Every
  foreign banking corporation licensed pursuant to  article  two  of  this
  chapter  to maintain one or more branches or agencies in this state, and
  holding an authorization certificate issued  pursuant  to  this  section
  may,  subject  to  such  further  limitations  and  restrictions  as the
  superintendent may prescribe, exercise the powers described in  sections
  one  hundred,  one  hundred-a,  one  hundred-b and one hundred-c of this
  chapter to the same extent, and subject to  the  same  requirements  and
  restrictions  and  effect as apply in the case of trust companies in the
  exercise of such powers.
    The superintendent shall, within sixty days of the receipt by him of a
  request for such authorization, issue to a foreign  banking  corporation
  licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter to maintain one or more
  branches  or  agencies  in this state, a certificate of authorization to
  exercise the fiduciary powers referred to in this section at all  or  at
  any  one  or more of its authorized branches or agencies, if he shall be
  satisfied that such powers will be  exercised  in  accordance  with  the
  requirements  of  this  chapter.  The  superintendent  may, after giving
  notice of the contemplated  action  and  reasonable  opportunity  to  be
  heard,  revoke  any  such  certificate of authorization if he shall find
  that a foreign banking corporation so authorized has failed  to  conform
  to  any  requirement  of  this  chapter  relating to the conduct of such
  business. Such revocation may apply to one or  more  of  the  authorized
  branches or agencies of a foreign banking corporation.


::: 201-c:notice_of_acquisition_of_control_or_merger.html
 
    &#167; 201-c.  Notice  of  acquisition  of  control or merger. 1. A foreign
  banking corporation licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter  to
  maintain  a  branch  or  agency  in  this  state  shall  file  with  the
  superintendent a notice, in such form and containing such information as
  the superintendent may prescribe, no later than fourteen  calendar  days
  after  such foreign banking corporation becomes aware of any acquisition
  of control of such corporation or merges with  another  foreign  banking
  corporation.
    2.  Control, for purposes of this section, means any person or entity,
  or  group  of  persons  or  entities  acting  in  concert,  directly  or
  indirectly,   owning,   controlling  or  holding  with  power  to  vote,
  twenty-five percent or more of any class of voting stock of such foreign
  banking corporation, or having the ability in  any  manner  to  elect  a
  majority  of  the  directors  of  such  foreign  banking corporation, or
  otherwise exercising a controlling influence  over  the  management  and
  policies   of  such  foreign  banking  corporation  as  defined  by  the
  superintendent by regulation.


::: 201:conditions_to_be_complied_with_by_foreign_banking_corporations_applying_for_initial_license.html
 
    &#167; 201.  Conditions to be complied with by foreign banking corporations
  applying for initial license. Every foreign banking  corporation  before
  being  licensed  by  the  superintendent  to  transact in this state the
  business of buying, selling, paying or collecting bills of exchange,  or
  of  issuing  letters of credit or of receiving money for transmission or
  transmitting the same by draft, check, cable or otherwise, or of  making
  loans,  or  receiving  deposits,  and  before  being  authorized  by the
  superintendent to exercise the fiduciary powers specified in section two
  hundred one-b of this chapter, or any part of such business,  or  before
  maintaining  in  this state its initial agency or branch for carrying on
  such business or any part thereof, shall subscribe and  acknowledge  and
  submit  to  the superintendent at his office, an application certificate
  in duplicate, which shall specifically state:
    1. The name of such foreign banking corporation.
    2. The place where its business is to be transacted in this state; and
  if such business is to be conducted through an agency in this state, the
  name of the agent  or  agents  through  whom  such  business  is  to  be
  transacted;  and if such business is to be transacted in this state by a
  branch of said foreign banking corporation, the name of the  person  who
  shall be in charge of the business and affairs of such branch.
    3.  The  amount  of  its  capital actually paid in cash and the amount
  subscribed for and unpaid.
    4. The actual value of the assets of such corporation, which  must  be
  at  least  one  million  dollars  in  excess  of  its liabilities; and a
  complete and detailed statement of its financial condition as of a  date
  prior  to  the  date  of  such  application as the superintendent in his
  discretion may determine.
    At  the  time  such  application  certificate  is  submitted  to   the
  superintendent, such corporation shall also submit a duly exemplified or
  otherwise  authenticated copy of its charter and a verified or otherwise
  authenticated copy of its by-laws, or an equivalent thereof satisfactory
  to the superintendent,  and  pay  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed
  pursuant  to  section  eighteen-a of this chapter to be collected by the
  superintendent.


::: 202-a:restrictions_on_receiving_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 202-a.  Restrictions  on  receiving  deposits.  1. A foreign banking
  corporation licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter to maintain
  one or more agencies in this state shall not engage in the  business  of
  receiving deposits in this state; provided (a) that such foreign banking
  corporation  may  maintain  for  the  account  of others credit balances
  incidental to, or arising out of, the exercise of its lawful powers; and
  (b) that the superintendent of financial services is authorized to adopt
  regulations that permit a foreign banking corporation, licensed pursuant
  to article two of this chapter to maintain one or more agencies in  this
  state,  to  issue  to  a corporation, partnership, trust, unincorporated
  association, joint stock association or similar association  obligations
  each  in  a  principal  amount  of  not  less  than one hundred thousand
  dollars; and (c)  that  such  foreign  banking  corporation  may  accept
  deposits  other  than from citizens or residents of the United States as
  the superintendent shall define by regulation.
    2. A foreign banking corporation organized under the laws of a foreign
  country may be licensed pursuant to  article  two  of  this  chapter  to
  maintain  a  branch  or  branches  in  this  state and may engage in the
  business of receiving deposits in this state.
    3. The superintendent  of  financial  services  shall  have  power  to
  prescribe, by specific or general regulation, to the extent to which and
  the  conditions upon which, the deposits and credit balances in agencies
  and branches in this  state  of  foreign  banking  corporations  may  be
  established, maintained and paid out.


::: 202-b:maintenance_of_assets_in_this_state.html
 
    &#167;  202-b.  Maintenance  of  assets  in this state. * 1. Upon opening a
  branch or agency and thereafter, a foreign banking corporation  licensed
  pursuant  to  article  two  of  this  chapter  shall keep on deposit, in
  accordance with such rules and regulations as the  superintendent  shall
  adopt  shall  from  time  to time, with such banks or trust companies or
  private bankers or national banks in the  state  of  New  York  as  such
  foreign  banking  corporation  may  designate and the superintendent may
  approve, interest-bearing stocks and bonds, notes, debentures, or  other
  obligations  of  the  United  States  or  any  agency or instrumentality
  thereof, or guaranteed by the United States, or of this state, or  of  a
  city, county, town, village, school district, or instrumentality of this
  state or guaranteed by this state, or dollar deposits, or obligations of
  the   International   Bank   for   Reconstruction  and  Development,  or
  obligations  issued  by  the   Inter-American   Development   Bank,   or
  obligations  of the Asian Development Bank, or obligations issued by the
  African Development Bank, or obligations  issued  by  the  International
  Finance  Corporation,  or bonds, notes, debentures, or other obligations
  issued by or guaranteed by the Federal Home  Loan  Mortgage  Corporation
  (Freddie  Mac)  or  by the Federal National Mortgage Corporation (Fannie
  Mae), or bonds, notes, debentures, or other  obligations  issued  by  or
  guaranteed by the Student Loan Marketing Association (SALLIE MAE) or all
  bonds,  notes,  debentures, or other obligations issued by or guaranteed
  by a federal home loan  bank,  or  bonds,  notes,  debentures  or  other
  obligations  of  any  unaffiliated  issuer provided that, at the time of
  such investment, the obligation has received the highest  rating  of  an
  independent  rating  service designated by the superintendent or, if the
  obligation is rated by more than one such service, the highest rating of
  at least two such services, or such other assets as  the  superintendent
  shall  by  rule  or  regulation  permit,  to  an  aggregate amount to be
  determined by the superintendent, based upon principal amount or  market
  value,   whichever   is  lower,  in  the  case  of  the  above-described
  securities, and subject to such limitations as the superintendent  shall
  prescribe;  provided, however, that the superintendent may determine, in
  the superintendent's discretion, that any such bonds, notes,  debentures
  or  other  obligations  of  a  particular  issuer are not acceptable for
  purposes  of  meeting  the  requirements  of   this   subdivision.   The
  superintendent  may  from time to time require that the assets deposited
  pursuant to this subdivision may be maintained by  the  foreign  banking
  corporation  at such amount, in such form and subject to such conditions
  as he or she shall deem necessary or desirable for the maintenance of  a
  sound  financial  condition, the protection of depositors and the public
  interest, and to maintain public confidence  in  the  business  of  such
  branch  or  branches  or such agency or agencies. The superintendent may
  give credit to reserves required to be maintained with a federal reserve
  bank in or outside the state  of  New  York  pursuant  to  federal  law,
  subject  to  such  rules  and regulations as the superintendent may from
  time to time promulgate. So long as it shall continue  business  in  the
  ordinary  course, such foreign banking corporation shall be permitted to
  collect interest on the securities so deposited and from  time  to  time
  exchange, examine and compare such securities.
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * 1. Upon opening a branch or agency and thereafter, a foreign banking
  corporation licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter shall  keep
  on  deposit,  in  accordance  with  such  rules  and  regulations as the
  superintendent shall from time to time promulgate, with  such  banks  or
  trust companies or private bankers or national banks in the state of New
  York   as  such  foreign  banking  corporation  may  designate  and  the
  superintendent may approve, interest-bearing stocks  and  bonds,  notes,
  debentures,  or  other obligations of the United States or any agency or
  instrumentality thereof, or guaranteed by the United States, or of  this
  state,  or  of  a  city,  county,  town,  village,  school  district, or
  instrumentality of this state or guaranteed by  this  state,  or  dollar
  deposits,  or  obligations  of the International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development, or obligations issued by the Inter-American Development
  Bank, or obligations of  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  or  obligations
  issued  by  the  African  Development Bank, or obligations issued by the
  International Finance Corporation, or bonds, notes, debentures, or other
  obligations issued by or guaranteed by the Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage
  Corporation   (Freddie   Mac)   or  by  the  Federal  National  Mortgage
  Corporation  (Fannie  Mae),  or  bonds,  notes,  debentures,  or   other
  obligations  issued  by  or  guaranteed  by  the  Student Loan Marketing
  Association (SALLIE MAE) or  all  bonds,  notes,  debentures,  or  other
  obligations  issued  by  or  guaranteed  by a federal home loan bank, or
  bonds, notes, debentures or other obligations of any unaffiliated issuer
  that meet the standards of creditworthiness established by regulation by
  the superintendent, or such other assets as the superintendent shall  by
  rule  or  regulation  permit, to an aggregate amount to be determined by
  the  superintendent,  based  upon  principal  amount  or  market  value,
  whichever  is  lower, in the case of the above-described securities, and
  subject to such limitations as he  or  she  shall  prescribe;  provided,
  however,   that   the  superintendent  may  determine,  in  his  or  her
  discretion, that any such bonds, notes, debentures or other  obligations
  of  a  particular  issuer are not acceptable for purposes of meeting the
  requirements of this subdivision. The superintendent may  from  time  to
  time  require that the assets deposited pursuant to this subdivision may
  be maintained by the foreign banking corporation at such amount, in such
  form and subject to such conditions as he or she shall deem necessary or
  desirable for the  maintenance  of  a  sound  financial  condition,  the
  protection of depositors and the public interest, and to maintain public
  confidence  in the business of such branch or branches or such agency or
  agencies. The superintendent may give credit to reserves required to  be
  maintained  with  a  federal reserve bank in or outside the state of New
  York pursuant to federal law, subject to such rules and  regulations  as
  the superintendent may from time to time promulgate. So long as it shall
  continue   business   in  the  ordinary  course,  such  foreign  banking
  corporation shall be permitted to collect interest on the securities  so
  deposited  and  from  time  to  time  exchange, examine and compare such
  securities.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    2. Each foreign banking corporation shall hold in this state currency,
  bonds,  notes,  debentures, drafts, bills of exchange or other evidences
  of   indebtedness,   including   loan   participation   agreements    or
  certificates,  or  other  obligations payable in the United States or in
  United States funds or, with the prior approval of  the  superintendent,
  in  funds  freely  convertible  into  United States funds, or such other
  assets as the superintendent shall by rule or regulation permit,  in  an
  amount which shall bear such relationship as the superintendent shall by
  regulation  prescribe to liabilities of such foreign banking corporation
  appearing in the books, accounts or records  of  its  agency,  agencies,
  branch  or  branches  in  this  state  as  liabilities  of  such agency,
  agencies, branch or  branches,  including  acceptances  and  such  other
  liabilities  (including  contingent  liabilities)  as the superintendent
  shall determine, but excluding amounts  due  and  other  liabilities  to
  other  offices, agencies or branches of, and affiliates of, such foreign
  banking corporation. As used in this subdivision, (i) "affiliate"  shall
  mean  any  person  or  entity, or group of persons or entities acting in
  concert, that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with
  such foreign banking corporation and (ii) "control" means any person, or
  group  of  persons  acting  in  concert, directly or indirectly, owning,
  controlling or holding with power to vote, more than  fifty  percent  of
  the  voting  stock  of a company, or having the ability in any manner to
  elect a majority of the directors of a company, or otherwise  exercising
  a controlling influence over the management and policies of a company as
  defined  by  the  superintendent  by  regulation.  For  purposes of this
  subdivision, the term "person" shall mean a corporation,  unincorporated
  association,  partnership,  or  any  other entity or individual. For the
  purposes of this subdivision, the superintendent shall value  marketable
  securities  at  principal  amount  or  market value, whichever is lower,
  shall have the right to determine the value of any non-marketable  bond,
  note,   debenture,   draft,   bill   of   exchange,  other  evidence  of
  indebtedness, including loan participation agreements  or  certificates,
  or  of  any  other  asset  or  obligation held by or owed to the foreign
  banking corporation or its agency, agencies, branch or  branches  within
  the  state,  and  in determining the amount of assets for the purpose of
  computing the above ratio of assets to liabilities, shall have the power
  to exclude in whole or in part any particular asset. If,  by  reason  of
  the  existence  or the potential occurrence of unusual and extraordinary
  circumstances, the superintendent deems it necessary  or  desirable  for
  the  maintenance  of  a  sound  financial  condition,  the protection of
  depositors, creditors and the public interest, and  to  maintain  public
  confidence  in  the business of the agency, agencies, branch or branches
  of a foreign banking corporation, the  superintendent  may,  subject  to
  such  terms  and conditions as the superintendent may prescribe, require
  such foreign banking corporation to deposit the assets  required  to  be
  held  in  this state pursuant to this subdivision two with such banks or
  trust companies or private bankers or national  banks  located  in  this
  state, as the superintendent may designate.
    3.  In the event that any of the deposits received within the state by
  a foreign  banking  corporation  are  insured  by  the  Federal  Deposit
  Insurance  Corporation, the superintendent shall specify what reasonable
  percentage of deposit liabilities may be  excluded  in  determining  the
  aggregate  amount of liabilities of such foreign banking corporation for
  deposits received within the state for purposes of  subdivision  two  of
  this  section  by  reason of the fact that all or a part of such deposit
  liabilities are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


::: 202-c:reserves_against_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 202-c.   Reserves   against  deposits.  Each  such  foreign  banking
  corporation which is authorized to maintain a branch or branches in this
  state shall maintain such reserves against the deposits of  such  branch
  or  branches  as  may  be required from time to time by the laws of this
  state to be maintained by banks and trust companies. Such reserves shall
  be maintained, subject to call, as provided by sections thirty-three and
  one hundred seven of this chapter;  provided,  however,  that  any  such
  foreign  banking  corporation  which  maintains  reserves with a federal
  reserve bank pursuant to federal law shall be exempt from the  preceding
  provisions  of  this  section  so  long  as  it  shall  comply  with the
  requirements of such  law  with  reference  to  reserves,  and  provided
  further that the superintendent of financial services may determine that
  it  is  necessary  or  appropriate  to  require  such  a foreign banking
  corporation to maintain additional reserves against the deposits of  its
  branch  or  branches  in  this  state,  taking  into  consideration  the
  character of business conducted by such institutions  and  the  need  to
  maintain  vigorous  and fair competition between and among such branches
  and banks organized under the  laws  of  this  state.  As  to  any  such
  additional reserves which are required to be maintained pursuant to this
  section,  to the extent permitted by the superintendent, amounts carried
  on the books of any such branch or branches as credits to the account of
  another office or branch or wholly owned (except for a nominal number of
  directors' shares) subsidiary of such foreign banking corporation  shall
  not be deemed to be deposits.


::: 202-d:foreign_banking_corporation_may_not_maintain_both_agencies_and_branches_in_this_state.html
 
    &#167; 202-d.  Foreign  banking  corporation may not maintain both agencies
  and branches in this state. No foreign banking corporation  licensed  to
  maintain  one  or  more  agencies  in  this  state  shall be licensed to
  maintain a branch in this state except upon termination of the operation
  of such agency or agencies; and no foreign banking corporation  licensed
  to  maintain  one  or  more  branches in this state shall be licensed to
  maintain an  agency  in  this  state  except  upon  termination  of  the
  operation of such branch or branches.


::: 202-f:restrictions_on_loans_purchases_of_securities_and_total_liabilities_of_any_one_person_to_new_york_branch_or_agency_of_foreign_bank.html
 
    &#167; 202-f.  Restrictions  on  loans,  purchases  of securities and total
  liabilities of any one person to New York branch or  agency  of  foreign
  bank.  Before  opening  a  branch  or agency in this state, and annually
  thereafter so long as a branch or agency is maintained in this state,  a
  foreign  banking  corporation,  licensed pursuant to article two of this
  chapter, shall certify to the superintendent the amount of  its  paid-in
  capital  stock,  its  surplus  fund  and  its  undivided  profits,  each
  expressed in the currency of  the  country  of  its  incorporation,  the
  dollar  equivalent of which amount, as determined by the superintendent,
  shall be deemed to be the amount of its capital stock, surplus fund  and
  undivided  profits.  Loans,  purchases  and discounts of notes, bills of
  exchange, bonds, debentures and other  obligations,  and  extensions  of
  credit  and  acceptances  by  a  branch  or  agency of a foreign banking
  corporation within this state shall be subject to the  same  limitations
  as  to  amount in relation to capital stock, surplus fund, and undivided
  profits as are applicable to  banks  and  trust  companies  pursuant  to
  article  three  of  this chapter, provided, however, that with the prior
  approval of the superintendent of financial services, the capital  notes
  and  capital  debentures  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation may be
  treated as capital stock in computing such limitations.


::: 202-g:succession_to_agency_by_branch_and_to_branch_by_agency.html
 
    &#167; 202-g.  Succession  to  agency  by  branch  and to branch by agency.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the  superintendent
  may,  subject  to  such  regulations  as  he  may  adopt,  authorize the
  conversion of a foreign banking corporation agency to a  branch  or  the
  conversion of a foreign banking corporation branch to an agency.
    When  a  foreign  banking  corporation shall be licensed to conduct in
  this state a branch in lieu of an agency theretofore conducted by it  or
  to  conduct  an  agency  in  this  state in lieu of a branch theretofore
  conducted by it, the preceding form  of  organization  shall,  with  the
  approval of the superintendent, be converted into the succeeding form of
  organization  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation  and  all  of  the
  liabilities of such foreign banking corporation  previously  payable  at
  the  office  where  such  preceding form of organization shall have been
  conducted shall thereafter be payable at the  office  of  the  successor
  form of organization.
    In  the event that the successor form of organization shall succeed to
  assets in which it would not have had  legal  power  to  invest  in  its
  successor  form,  or,  in  the  event the successor form of organization
  shall succeed to liabilities which the successor  form  of  organization
  would  not  have  had  power to incur, it shall liquidate such assets or
  liabilities within the next succeeding twelve calendar months unless the
  superintendent shall, in his discretion, extend such period of  time  in
  the interest of the orderly conduct of such branch or agency.


::: 202-h:repayment_of_deposits_standing_in_the_names_of_minors_trustees_joint_depositors_or_custodians_interpleader_in_certain_actions.html
 
    &#167;  202-h.  Repayment  of  deposits  standing  in  the names of minors,
  trustees,  joint  depositors  or  custodians;  interpleader  in  certain
  actions.  1.  Any minor may endorse a check payable to his order for the
  purpose of depositing the proceeds in a  deposit  in  his  name  with  a
  branch  in  this  state  of  a  foreign banking corporation and when any
  deposit shall be made by or in the name of any minor, the same shall  be
  held  for  the  exclusive right and benefit of such minor, and free from
  the control or lien of all other persons, except creditors, and shall be
  paid, together with the interest thereon to the person or upon the order
  by check or otherwise of the person in  whose  name  the  deposit  shall
  stand,  and  the  receipt, acquittance or order of payment of such minor
  shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge for  such  deposit
  or any part thereof to the foreign banking corporation.
    4.  (a)  In  all  actions  against  any foreign banking corporation to
  recover for moneys on deposit with a branch thereof in  this  state,  if
  there be any person or persons, not parties to the action, who claim the
  same  fund,  the  court  in  which  the  action  is pending, may, on the
  petition of such foreign  banking  corporation,  and  upon  eight  days'
  notice  to the plaintiff and such claimants, and without proof as to the
  merits of the claim, make an  order  amending  the  proceedings  in  the
  action by making such claimants parties defendant thereto; and the court
  shall  thereupon  proceed  to  determine the rights and interests of the
  several parties to the action in and to such funds. The remedy  provided
  in  this  section shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any other
  interpleader provision.
    (b) The funds on deposit which are the subject of such an  action  may
  remain with such foreign banking corporation to the credit of the action
  until  final  judgment  therein, and be entitled to the same interest as
  other deposits of the same class, and shall  be  paid  by  such  foreign
  banking  corporation in accordance with the final judgment of the court;
  or the deposit in controversy may be paid into court to await the  final
  determination  of the action, and when the deposit is so paid into court
  such foreign banking corporation shall be struck out as a party  to  the
  action, and its liability for such deposit shall cease.
    (c)  The costs in all actions against a foreign banking corporation to
  recover deposits shall be in the discretion of the  court,  and  may  be
  charged upon the fund affected by the action.
    5.  Deposits  by custodian for a minor under part six of article seven
  of the estates, powers and trusts law.  When  any  deposit  of  cash  or
  securities  shall  be  made  with  a  branch  in this state of a foreign
  banking corporation by a person purporting to act  as  custodian  for  a
  minor  under part six of article seven of the estates, powers and trusts
  law or under a similar law of another state, the deposit  together  with
  any  interest  or dividends credited thereon may be paid or delivered to
  or upon the order of such person, or his successor as custodian, or to a
  minor upon the minor's attaining either  eighteen  years  or  twenty-one
  years,  as  provided in accordance with part six of article seven of the
  estates, powers and trusts law, if no custodian is acting at the time of
  such payment or delivery, and any  receipt  or  order  of  such  person,
  successor  or  minor shall be valid and sufficient release and discharge
  of the depositary for any payment or delivery  so  made.  No  depositary
  dealing with a person purporting to act as a custodian for a minor under
  said  article  shall be bound to inquire into any facts bearing upon the
  designation of such person as such custodian  or  the  propriety  of  or
  authority  for any act of such person under said article or otherwise or
  the age of the person designated as a  minor.  No  depositary  shall  be
  liable for any act performed pursuant to the instruction or direction of
  any  person purporting to act as custodian under said article unless the
  depositary has actual knowledge that such act,  or  the  instruction  or
  direction therefor, constitutes a breach of such person's obligations as
  such  custodian,  or  unless  the  depositary  performs  such  act  with
  knowledge  of  such  facts  that  acting pursuant to such instruction or
  direction amounts to bad faith.


::: 202-i:safe_deposit_business_of_branches.html
 
    &#167; 202-i.  Safe deposit business of branches. Each such foreign banking
  corporation which is authorized to maintain a branch or branches in this
  state may (a) receive upon deposit for safe-keeping for hire upon  terms
  and  conditions  to  be  prescribed by such foreign banking corporation,
  money, securities, papers of any kind and any other  personal  property,
  and  (b)  engage  in  the  safe deposit business by renting vaults, safe
  deposit boxes or other receptacles  upon  premises  of  such  branch  or
  branches,  upon  such  terms and conditions as may be prescribed by such
  foreign corporation.


::: 202-j:power_to_act_as_trustee_under_selfemployed_retirement_trust_or_individual_retirement_trust.html
 
    &#167; 202-j.  Power to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust
  or individual retirement trust. Each such  foreign  banking  corporation
  which  is  authorized to maintain a branch or branches in this state the
  deposits  of  which  are  insured  by  the  federal  deposit   insurance
  corporation  or any successor may, subject to any regulations prescribed
  by the superintendent of financial services, act through any such branch
  as  trustee  under  a  retirement  plan  established  pursuant  to   the
  provisions  of  the  act of congress entitled "Self-employed Individuals
  Tax Retirement Act of 1962" as such provisions may be amended from  time
  to  time,  and  under  an individual retirement account plan established
  pursuant to the amendments to the provisions  of  the  Internal  Revenue
  Code  contained  in  the  act  of congress entitled "Employee Retirement
  Income Security Act of 1974" as such provisions may be amended from time
  to time, provided that the provisions of such retirement  or  individual
  retirement  account  plan require the funds of such trust to be invested
  exclusively in deposits of  branches  of  foreign  banking  corporations
  located  in  this state the deposits of which are insured by the federal
  deposit insurance corporation or any successor and in deposits of banks,
  trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan  associations,  federal
  mutual  savings  or  federal  savings  banks or federal savings and loan
  associations whose principal offices are located in this state.  In  the
  event  that  any  such retirement or individual retirement account plan,
  which in the judgment of the foreign banking corporation  constituted  a
  qualified  plan  under  the provisions of the applicable act of congress
  hereinabove mentioned and the regulations promulgated thereunder at  the
  time  the  trust  was  established  and  accepted by the foreign banking
  corporation is subsequently determined not to be such a  qualified  plan
  or subsequently ceases to be such a qualified plan, in whole or in part,
  the  foreign  banking  corporation may, nevertheless, continue to act as
  trustee of any deposits theretofore made under such plan and to  dispose
  of  the  same in accordance with the directions of the depositor and the
  beneficiaries thereof. No foreign banking  corporation,  in  respect  to
  deposits  made  under  this section, shall be required to segregate such
  deposits from  other  deposits  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation,
  provided,  however,  that  the  foreign  banking  corporation shall keep
  appropriate records showing in proper detail all transactions engaged in
  under the authority of this section.


::: 202:rates_of_interest_installment_obligations_personal_loan_departments_effect_of_usury.html
 
    &#167;  202.  Rates  of  interest;  installment  obligations; personal loan
  departments; effect of usury. Branches and agencies of  foreign  banking
  corporations  licensed  to  do business in this state may make loans and
  offer extensions of credit to the same extent and subject  to  the  same
  conditions as banks and trust companies may make loans and extend credit
  pursuant  to  the  provisions of subdivisions four-a and five of section
  one hundred three of this chapter and section one hundred eight of  this
  chapter.  Without  limiting the foregoing, a foreign banking corporation
  licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter to maintain one or more
  branches or agencies in this state, may, in pursuance of  its  otherwise
  lawful  powers  under  this chapter, take, receive, reserve or charge on
  any loan or discount made, or upon any note, bill of exchange  or  other
  evidence  of  debt,  negotiable  or otherwise, interest at such rate and
  such other charges and  fees  as  a  bank  or  trust  company  shall  be
  permitted  to  charge  under the provisions of the laws of this state or
  the laws of the United States, with respect to the same class or classes
  of loans or transactions to which such rate or  such  charges  and  fees
  shall be applicable.


::: 203:change_of_location_name_or_business.html
 
  &#167; 203. Change of location, name or business.
    Any  foreign  corporation  licensed  pursuant  to  article two of this
  chapter to engage  in  business  in  this  state,  may  make  a  written
  application  to  the  superintendent  for leave to do one or more of the
  following:
    1. To change its place of business from the place  designated  in  its
  license  to  another place in this state. An application for such change
  shall be accompanied by an investigation fee as prescribed  pursuant  to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter.
    2. To change its corporate name if such change has been effected under
  the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation.
    3.  To  enlarge,  limit  or  otherwise  change  the  business which it
  proposes to do in this state.


::: 204-a:payment_of_claims_by_foreign_banking_corporations_where_adverse_claim_is_asserted_effect_of_claims_or_advices_originating_in_and_statutes_rules_or.html
 
    &#167; 204-a.  Payment  of  claims  by  foreign  banking corporations where
  adverse claim is asserted; effect of claims or advices  originating  in,
  and statutes, rules or regulations purporting to be in force in occupied
  territory;   performance   of   contracts   and  repayment  of  deposits
  performable  or  repayable  at  foreign  offices  of   foreign   banking
  corporations.  1.  Notice  to  any  foreign  banking  corporation  doing
  business in this state under a license issued by the  superintendent  in
  accordance with the provisions of this chapter, of an adverse claim to a
  credit  standing  on  its  books to the account of any person, or to the
  balance in any deposit account, or of an adverse claim to securities  or
  other  property  held  for  the  account  of  any  person,  shall not be
  effectual in this state to cause said  foreign  banking  corporation  to
  recognize  said adverse claimant unless said adverse claimant shall also
  either procure a restraining  order,  injunction  or  other  appropriate
  process  against  said  foreign  banking  corporation  from  a  court of
  competent  jurisdiction  in  the  United  States  in  a  cause   therein
  instituted  by  him  wherein  the  person to whose account the credit or
  deposit stands, or for whose account the securities  or  other  property
  are  held,  or  his executor or administrator is made a party and served
  with summons, or shall execute to said foreign banking  corporation,  in
  form  and  with  sureties  acceptable  to  it  a bond, indemnifying said
  foreign banking corporation from any and all  liability,  loss,  damage,
  costs  and  expenses,  for  and on account of the payment of or delivery
  pursuant to such adverse claim or the  dishonor  of  the  order  of  the
  person  to  whose  account  the credit or deposit stands on the books of
  said foreign banking corporation or for whose account the securities  or
  other property are held by said foreign banking corporation.
    2.  (a)  A  foreign  banking  corporation doing business in this state
  under a license issued by the  superintendent  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of this chapter, need not in this state recognize or give any
  effect to (1) any claim to a credit standing on its books to the account
  of,  or  the  balance  in  any  deposit  account  of,  or  any  claim to
  securities, or other property  held  by  it  for  the  account  of,  any
  corporation,  firm  or  association  in  occupied  territory  or (2) any
  advice, statute, rule or regulation purporting  to  cancel  or  to  give
  notice  of  the  cancellation of the authority of any person at the time
  appearing on the books of such foreign banking corporation as authorized
  to withdraw or otherwise dispose of cash, securities, or other  property
  of  such  corporation,  firm or association, unless such foreign banking
  corporation is required so to do by appropriate process procured against
  it in a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States in a  cause
  therein  instituted  by  or  in  the  name  of such corporation, firm or
  association, or unless the person  making  such  claim  or  giving  such
  advice or invoking such statute, rule or regulation, as the case may be,
  shall  execute  to  such  foreign  banking corporation, in form and with
  sureties acceptable to it, a bond  indemnifying  it  from  any  and  all
  liability,  loss,  damage,  costs  and  expenses  for  and on account of
  recognizing or giving any effect to such claim, advice, statute, rule or
  regulation.
    (b) For the purposes  of  this  subdivision  (1)  the  term  "occupied
  territory"  shall  mean  territory  occupied  by  a  dominant  authority
  asserting governmental, military or police powers of any  kind  in  such
  territory,  but  not  recognized  by  the  United  States as the de jure
  government of such territory, and (2) the  term  "corporation,  firm  or
  association  in  occupied  territory"  shall mean a corporation, firm or
  association which has, or at any time has had, a place  of  business  in
  territory which has at any time been occupied territory.
    (c)  The  foregoing  provisions of this subdivision shall be effective
  only in cases where (1) such claim or advice purports or appears to have
  been sent from or is reasonably believed to have been sent  pursuant  to
  orders  originating  in,  such  occupied  territory during the period of
  occupation,  or  (2)  such  statute,  rule or regulation appears to have
  emanated from such dominant authority and purports to be or to have been
  in force in such occupied territory during the period of occupation.
    (d) The foregoing  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  apply  to
  claims,  advices,  statutes, rules or regulations made, given or invoked
  either prior to, or on or subsequent to the effective date of this act.
    (e) A foreign banking corporation doing business in this state under a
  license issued by the superintendent in accordance with  the  provisions
  of this chapter need not in this state recognize or give any effect to a
  claim  of  authority  to  order  the payment or delivery of any funds or
  other property standing on its books to the credit of, or held by it for
  the account of, any person, corporation, unincorporated  association  or
  partnership,  which  claim  conflicts with a claim of authority of which
  the foreign banking corporation had prior notice, unless the  person  or
  persons  asserting  such  subsequent  claim  shall procure a restraining
  order, injunction or other  appropriate  process  against  said  foreign
  banking corporation from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United
  States,  or,  in  lieu  thereof,  at  the option of said foreign banking
  corporation, shall execute to said foreign banking corporation, in  form
  and  with sureties acceptable to it, a bond, indemnifying it for any and
  all liability, loss, damage, costs and expenses for or on account of any
  payment or delivery of such property by it pursuant to  such  subsequent
  claim  of authority or for or on account of the dishonor of any check or
  other order of any person or persons asserting the claim of authority of
  which such foreign banking corporation already had notice  at  the  time
  the  subsequent conflicting claim of authority is asserted by the person
  or persons furnishing such bond.
    3. (a) Notwithstanding section 1-105 of the uniform  commercial  code,
  any  foreign  banking  corporation  doing business in this state under a
  license issued by the superintendent in accordance with  the  provisions
  of  this  chapter  shall  be  liable  in  this state for contracts to be
  performed at its office or offices  in  any  foreign  country,  and  for
  deposits  to  be  repaid at such office or offices, to no greater extent
  than a bank, banking corporation or other  organization  or  association
  for  banking  purposes  organized  and  existing  under the laws of such
  foreign country would be liable under its laws. The laws of such foreign
  country for the purpose of this subdivision shall be deemed  to  include
  all  acts,  decrees, regulations and orders promulgated or enforced by a
  dominant authority asserting governmental, military or police  power  of
  any  kind  at the place where any such office is located, whether or not
  such dominant  authority  be  recognized  as  a  de  facto  or  de  jure
  government.
    (b)  Notwithstanding  section 1-105 of the uniform commercial code, if
  by action of any such dominant authority which is not recognized by  the
  United  States  as  the  de  jure  government  of  the foreign territory
  concerned, any property situated in or any amount to be received in such
  foreign territory and carried as an asset of any office of such  foreign
  banking  corporation  in  such foreign territory is seized, destroyed or
  cancelled, then the liability, if any, in this  state  of  such  foreign
  banking  corporation for any deposit theretofore received and thereafter
  to be repaid by it, and for any contract theretofore made and thereafter
  to be performed by it, at any office in such foreign territory shall  be
  reduced  pro  tanto  by  the  proportion that the value (as shown by the
  books or other records of such foreign banking corporation, at the  time
  of  such  seizure,  destruction or cancellation) of such assets bears to
  the aggregate of all the deposit and contract liabilities of the  office
  or   offices  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation  in  such  foreign
  territory,  as  shown at such time by the books or other records of such
  foreign banking corporations. Nothing contained in this paragraph  shall
  diminish  or  otherwise affect the liability of any such foreign banking
  corporation to any corporation, firm or individual which at the time  of
  such  seizure,  destruction or cancellation was incorporated or resident
  in any state of the United States.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of  any  law  to  the  contrary,  a
  foreign  banking corporation operating a branch or branches or an agency
  or agencies in this state shall not be required to repay,  at  any  such
  branch,  branches, agency or agencies in this state, any deposit made at
  a foreign office of any such foreign banking corporation if such  office
  cannot  repay  the  deposit  due  to (i) an act of war, insurrection, or
  civil  strife;  or  (ii)  an  action  by   a   foreign   government   or
  instrumentality,  whether  de  jure or de facto, in the country in which
  the office is located preventing  such  repayment,  unless  the  foreign
  banking  corporation  operating  in  this  state has expressly agreed in
  writing  to  repay   the   deposit   under   such   circumstances.   The
  superintendent   of   financial   services  may  promulgate  regulations
  necessary to effectuate the  provisions  of  this  paragraph,  including
  regulations  providing  for  adequate disclosure to retail depositors in
  the United States of the restrictions on  repayment  contained  in  this
  subdivision.  The  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall  not  alter or
  diminish the liability of a custodian of assets of a fund under  section
  one hundred seventy-eight-a of the retirement and social security law.


::: 204:reports_of_foreign_banking_corporations_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 204.  Reports  of  foreign  banking  corporations;  penalties. Every
  foreign banking corporation licensed by the superintendent to engage  in
  business  in  this  state,  shall  at such times and in such form as the
  superintendent  shall   prescribe,   make   written   reports   to   the
  superintendent under the oath of one of its officers, managers or agents
  transacting business in this state, showing the amount of its assets and
  liabilities  and  containing  such  other  matters as the superintendent
  shall prescribe. If any such corporation shall fail  to  make  any  such
  report  as  directed  by  the superintendent, it shall be subject to the
  penalties prescribed by section one hundred twenty-five of this chapter,
  and any false statement contained in any such report  or  in  any  other
  sworn  statement  made  to  the  superintendent  by  such corporation in
  pursuance of the provisions of this chapter  shall  constitute  perjury.
  Nothing  herein  contained shall be deemed to modify the prohibitions of
  section one hundred thirty-one of this chapter.


::: 206:termination_of_existence.html
 
    &#167; 206.  Termination  of  existence. When a foreign banking corporation
  licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter  is  dissolved  or  its
  authority  or  existence  is  otherwise  terminated  or cancelled in the
  jurisdiction of its incorporation, a certificate of  the  superintendent
  of financial services, or official performing the equivalent function as
  to records of banking corporations, of the jurisdiction of incorporation
  of  such  foreign banking corporation attesting to the occurrence of any
  such event or a certified copy of an order or decree of a court of  such
  jurisdiction   directing   the   dissolution  of  such  foreign  banking
  corporation, the termination of its existence or the cancellation of its
  authority shall be delivered to the superintendent. The  filing  of  the
  certificate,  order  or  decree  shall  have  the  same  effect  as  the
  revocation of its license under  section  forty  of  this  chapter.  The
  superintendent   shall   continue   as  agent  of  the  foreign  banking
  corporation upon whom process against it may be served in any action  or
  special  proceeding  based  upon any liability or obligation incurred by
  the foreign banking corporation within this state prior to the filing of
  such certificate, order or decree and he shall promptly cause a copy  of
  such  process to be mailed by registered mail, return receipt requested,
  to such foreign corporation at the post office address on  file  in  his
  office  specified  for  such  purpose.  The  post  office address may be
  changed in the manner provided in section two hundred of this article.


::: 207:service_of_process_on_unlicensed_corporation_formed_under_laws_other_than_the_statutes_of_this_state.html
 
  &#167; 207.  Service  of  process on unlicensed corporation formed under laws
            other than the statutes of this state.
    1. Every corporation formed under laws other than the statutes of this
  state which is required by this chapter to obtain  a  license  from  the
  superintendent,  and  which itself or through an agent does any business
  in this  state  for  which  such  license  is  required  either  without
  obtaining  such  license or after the revocation thereof, submits itself
  to the jurisdiction of the courts of this state and is  deemed  to  have
  designated  the superintendent as its agent upon whom process against it
  may be served, in any action or special proceeding arising out of or  in
  connection  with  the  doing of such business. Such process may issue in
  any court in this state having jurisdiction of the subject matter.
    2. Service of such process upon the superintendent shall  be  made  by
  personally delivering to and leaving with him or his deputy, or with any
  person  authorized by the superintendent to receive such service, at the
  office of the superintendent, a copy of such process together  with  the
  statutory  fee,  which fee shall be a taxable disbursement. Such service
  shall be sufficient if notice thereof and a copy of the process are:
    (a) Delivered personally without this state to  such  foreign  banking
  corporation by a person and in the manner authorized to serve process by
  law in the jurisdiction in which service is made, or
    (b)  Sent  by  or  on  behalf of the plaintiff to such foreign banking
  corporation by registered mail with return  receipt  requested,  at  the
  post  office  address  specified  for the purpose of mailing process, on
  file in the department of financial services, or with  any  official  or
  body  performing  the  equivalent  function,  in the jurisdiction of its
  incorporation, or  if  no  such  address  is  there  specified,  to  its
  registered  or  other  office  there  specified, or if no such office is
  there specified, to the last address of such foreign banking corporation
  known to the plaintiff.
    3. Proof of service shall be by  affidavit  of  compliance  with  this
  section  filed, together with the process, within thirty days after such
  service, with the clerk of the court in  which  the  action  or  special
  proceeding  is pending. If a copy of the process is mailed in accordance
  with this section, there shall be filed with the affidavit of compliance
  either the return receipt signed by such foreign banking corporation  or
  other  official  proof  of delivery or, if acceptance was refused by it,
  the original envelope with a notation by  the  postal  authorities  that
  acceptance  was refused. If acceptance was refused, a copy of the notice
  and process together with notice of the mailing by registered  mail  and
  refusal  to  accept  shall  be  promptly  sent  to  such foreign banking
  corporation at the same address by ordinary mail and  the  affidavit  of
  compliance shall so state. Service of process shall be complete ten days
  after  such papers are filed with the clerk of the court. The refusal to
  accept delivery of the registered mail or to  sign  the  return  receipt
  shall  not  affect  the validity of the service and such foreign banking
  corporation refusing to accept such registered  mail  shall  be  charged
  with knowledge of the contents thereof.
    4.  Service made as provided in this section shall have the same force
  as personal service made within this state.
    5. Nothing in this section shall affect the right to serve process  in
  any other manner permitted by law.
    6.  The  department  of financial services shall keep a record of each
  process served upon the superintendent under this section, including the
  date of service. It shall, upon request made within ten  years  of  such
  service, issue a certificate under its seal certifying as to the receipt
  of  the  service  by  an  authorized  person, the date and place of such
  service and the receipt of the statutory fee. Process  served  upon  the
  superintendent  under  this  section  shall  be destroyed by him after a
  period of ten years from such service.


::: 208:nondiscriminatory_treatment_of_insured_state_banks_and_national_banks.html
 
    &#167; 208. Nondiscriminatory treatment of insured state banks and national
  banks. Notwithstanding any other laws of this state, a state bank, which
  is  incorporated  in  another  state  and  whose deposits are insured by
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall have the  same  protection,
  privileges  and  immunities,  including the right to sue, collect debts,
  realize on collateral security, enforce liens, claims  and  obligations,
  and  protect  its  property  in  this  state,  as  a national bank whose
  principal office is located in the same state as such  state  bank,  and
  such state bank and its shares, securities and evidences of indebtedness
  shall  enjoy the same privileges, protections and immunities as those of
  such a national bank  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  disability,
  incapacity,  restriction,  regulation,  penalty,  fee,  fine or taxation
  which is not imposed by this state in the case of such a national  bank,
  provided  however  that this section shall not apply with respect to any
  state bank and its shares,  securities  and  evidences  of  indebtedness
  unless  such  state  bank's  state  of  incorporation has a statute with
  provisions substantially similar to this section which is applicable  to
  a  state  bank  incorporated  in this state. As used in this section the
  term "state bank" shall mean any commercial bank or trust company.


::: 209:restrictions_on_executive_officers_of_foreign_banking_corporations_and_national_banks.html
 
    &#167; 209.   Restrictions   on   executive  officers  of  foreign  banking
  corporations and national banks.  1. No executive officer of  a  foreign
  banking  corporation  maintaining  a  branch  in  this  state  may be an
  executive officer, director or trustee  of  a  bank  or  trust  company,
  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  national bank, federal
  savings bank or federal savings association,  the  principal  office  of
  which  institution  is  located  in  this state, bank holding company or
  another foreign banking corporation maintaining a branch in this  state,
  unless  permission  therefor  has  been  granted  by  the superintendent
  pursuant to the provisions of subdivision three of this section,  except
  that an executive officer of a foreign banking corporation maintaining a
  branch in this state which is a subsidiary of a bank holding company may
  be  (i)  an  executive  officer  and (ii) a director of the bank holding
  company of which such foreign banking corporation is a  subsidiary,  and
  of  one  or  more  of the banking institutions which are subsidiaries of
  such bank holding company.
    2. No executive officer of a national bank, federal  savings  bank  or
  federal  savings  association, the principal office of which institution
  is located in this state, may  be  an  executive  officer,  director  or
  trustee  of  a  bank  or  trust  company, savings bank, savings and loan
  association,  bank  holding  company  or  foreign  banking   corporation
  maintaining  a branch in this state, unless permission therefor has been
  granted by the superintendent pursuant to the provisions of  subdivision
  three  of  this  section,  except  that  (1)  an  executive officer of a
  national bank located in this state, which is a  subsidiary  of  a  bank
  holding  company  may be (i) an executive officer and (ii) a director of
  the bank holding company and of one or more banking  institutions  which
  are subsidiaries of such bank holding company.
    3.  The superintendent shall have the power to determine by regulation
  who shall be considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be
  an executive officer, and by  regulation,  to  grant  permission  to  an
  executive  officer of a foreign banking corporation maintaining a branch
  in this state and to an executive officer of a national bank located  in
  this  state,  to  be  at  the same time an executive officer, trustee or
  director or both an executive officer and a trustee  or  director  of  a
  bank  or  trust  company,  savings  bank,  savings and loan association,
  national bank, federal savings bank or federal savings association,  the
  principal  office  of  which  is  located  in  this  state, bank holding
  company, and foreign banking corporation maintaining a  branch  in  this
  state.  Such  permission  may  be granted only if in the judgment of the
  superintendent such service by the executive officer will be  consistent
  with  the  policy of the state of New York as declared in section ten of
  this chapter. The superintendent shall have the  power  to  revoke  such
  permission  whenever  the  superintendent finds, after reasonable notice
  and an opportunity to be heard, that the public interest  requires  such
  revocation.
    4.  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision, the terms "subsidiary",
  "banking institution" and "bank holding company" shall each be given the
  same meaning as is contained in their respective definition  in  section
  one hundred forty-one of this chapter, except that the definition of the
  term  "banking  institution"  is  modified  to  include a national bank,
  federal savings bank  or  federal  savings  association,  the  principal
  office  of  which  institution  is  located in this state, and a foreign
  banking corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    5. All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this  chapter  on
  executive   officers  and  directors  of  foreign  banking  corporations
  maintaining a branch in  this  state  and  on  national  banks,  federal
  savings  banks and federal savings associations, the principal office of
  which institution is located in this state, shall continue in effect.


::: 20:assessments_penalties_and_forfeitures_entitled_to_priority.html
 
    &#167; 20.  Assessments, penalties and forfeitures entitled to priority. In
  case of the insolvency or voluntary or involuntary  liquidation  of  any
  person  or  entity  licensed,  registered,  or incorporated or otherwise
  formed pursuant to this chapter, all unpaid  charges  lawfully  assessed
  against  such  person  or  entity  by  the superintendent and all unpaid
  penalties and forfeitures incurred by such person or  entity  under  any
  section  of  this  chapter shall be entitled to priority of payment from
  such person's or entity's assets on an equality with any other  priority
  given by this chapter.


::: 210:establishment.html
 
    &#167; 210.  Establishment.  1. There is hereby created a corporation which
  shall be known as  the  "New  York  Business  Development  Corporation".
  Process  in  any  action  or  proceeding against such corporation may be
  served upon the secretary of state, as agent  of  such  corporation  for
  such  purpose.  If  such corporation fails to commence business by April
  first, nineteen hundred fifty-eight, its existence shall  terminate  and
  the provisions of this article shall become null and void.
    2.  The  business  corporation  law  applies  to the New York Business
  Development Corporation, except that in case of a conflict  between  the
  business corporation law and this article the provisions of this article
  shall  govern.  If  there  is  in this article a provision relating to a
  matter embraced in the business corporation  law  and  not  in  conflict
  therewith,   both   provisions   shall  apply.  The  New  York  Business
  Development  Corporation  shall  be  treated  as  a  "corporation",   or
  "domestic   corporation",  as  such  terms  are  used  in  the  business
  corporation law, except that the purposes for which such corporation  is
  formed under this article shall not thereby be extended.
    3.  For the purpose of this section and elsewhere in this article, the
  effective date of the business  corporation  law  as  to  the  New  York
  Business  Development  Corporation  shall  be  September first, nineteen
  hundred sixty-four.


::: 211:economic_regions.html
 
    &#167; 211.  Economic  regions. For the purposes of this article, the state
  is hereby divided into twelve economic regions, as follows:
    1. Binghamton region. The counties of Broome, Chenango,  Delaware  and
  Otsego.
    2.  Capital district-Champlain region. The counties of Clinton, Essex,
  Rensselaer,  Albany,  Saratoga,  Schoharie,  Schenectady,   Warren   and
  Washington.
    3.  Elmira  region.  The counties of Chemung, Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga
  and Tompkins.
    4. Mid-Hudson region. The  counties  of  Dutchess,  Columbia,  Greene,
  Orange, Putnam, Sullivan and Ulster.
    5.  Mohawk  Valley region. The counties of Fulton, Hamilton, Herkimer,
  Montgomery and Oneida.
    6. Nassau-Suffolk region. The counties of Nassau and Suffolk.
    7. New York city region. The  counties  of  Bronx,  Kings,  New  York,
  Queens and Richmond.
    8. Niagara-southwestern region. The counties of Allegany, Cattaraugus,
  Chautauqua, Erie and Niagara.
    9. Northern region. The counties of Franklin, Jefferson, Lewis and St.
  Lawrence.
    10.  Rochester  region.  The  counties of Genesee, Livingston, Monroe,
  Ontario, Orleans, Seneca, Wayne, Wyoming and Yates.
    11. Syracuse  region.  The  counties  of  Cayuga,  Cortland,  Madison,
  Onondaga and Oswego.
    12.   Westchester-Rockland   region.  The  counties  of  Rockland  and
  Westchester.


::: 212:purposes_powers_and_operation.html
 
    &#167; 212.  Purposes,  powers  and  operation. 1. (a) The purposes of such
  corporation shall be to assist,  promote,  encourage  and,  through  the
  cooperative  efforts  of  the institutions and corporations which shall,
  from time to time, become  members  thereof,  develop  and  advance  the
  business  prosperity and economic welfare of the state; to encourage and
  assist in the location of new business and industry in the state and  to
  rehabilitate and retain existing business and industry; to stimulate and
  assist  in  the  expansion  of all kinds of business activity which will
  tend to promote the  business  development  and  maintain  the  economic
  stability  of  the state, provided maximum opportunities for employment,
  encourage thrift and improve the standard of living of the  citizens  of
  the state; to cooperate and act in conjunction with other organizations,
  public   or  private,  the  objects  of  which  are  the  promotion  and
  advancement of industrial,  commercial,  agricultural  and  recreational
  developments  in  the state; to furnish money and credit to approved and
  deserving applicants, for the promotion, development and conduct of  all
  kinds  of  business activity in the state, thereby establishing a source
  of credit not otherwise readily  available;  and  to  provide  financial
  assistance  in  the  form  of loans to small businesses unable to obtain
  financing from other private sources, including,  but  not  limited  to,
  assistance  to  women  and minority-owned business enterprises and small
  businesses located in economically distressed areas. For the purposes of
  this  article,  "economically  distressed  areas"   shall   mean   areas
  determined by the commissioner of the department of economic development
  on  the  basis  of  criteria  indicative of economic distress, including
  poverty  rates,  numbers  of  persons   receiving   public   assistance,
  unemployment rates, rate of employment decline, population loss, rate of
  per  capita  income  change,  decline  in  economic activity and private
  investment,  and  such  other  indicators  as  the  commissioner   deems
  appropriate.   Economically   distressed   areas   may  include  cities,
  municipalities, block numbering areas, and census tracts.
    (b)  The  corporation  shall  undertake  the  following  programs   in
  furtherance  of  the above objectives: (i) establish regional offices at
  locations throughout New  York,  with  sufficient  staffing  to  advise,
  develop  and  package  financial  assistance  for small and medium sized
  businesses; (ii) develop a comprehensive outreach  program  to  increase
  the  visibility  and  awareness of the corporation's programs, including
  allocating budget and staff to establish and maintain an aggressive  and
  extensive  marketing  program of the corporation's program of assistance
  to small and medium sized businesses, providing for specific outreach to
  minority and women owned  enterprises,  and  entering  into  cooperative
  relationships   with  local  chambers  of  commerce,  local  development
  agencies, local  development  corporations  and  other  community  based
  financial  intermediaries  as  set  forth  in  subdivision three of this
  section; (iii) establish and operate, or affiliate with a small business
  investment company and a specialized small business investment  company;
  and  (iv)  establish  a  pilot export financing program, using personnel
  from the private sector, to evaluate whether the corporation can play  a
  significant  role in the growth of the export industry in the state. The
  corporation shall undertake the programs enumerated herein at such times
  as its board of directors determines that the corporation's capital base
  and available funds are  adequate  to  support  the  operation  of  such
  program.   The  programs  enumerated  herein  may  be  modified  by  the
  corporation as may be necessary  to  meet  the  changing  needs  of  the
  state's economy, as determined by the board of directors.
    2. In furtherance of the purposes set forth in subdivision one of this
  section,  and  in addition to the powers conferred on stock corporations
  by general laws, such corporation shall, subject to the restrictions and
  limitations contained in this article, have the following powers:
    (a)  To  borrow  money and otherwise incur indebtedness for any of its
  purposes; to issue its bonds, debentures, notes or  other  evidences  of
  indebtedness,  whether secured or unsecured, therefor; and to secure the
  same by mortgage, pledge, deed of trust or other lien on  its  property,
  franchises,  rights  and privileges of every kind and nature or any part
  thereof.
    (b) To assist, promote, encourage and through the cooperative  efforts
  of  the  institutions  and  corporations which shall, from time to time,
  become members thereof, develop and advance the business prosperity  and
  economic  welfare  of the state; to encourage and assist in the location
  of new business and industry in the state and to  rehabilitate  existing
  business  and industry; to evaluate, assess and determine the value of a
  patent right and to take, sell or transfer an agreement or note pursuant
  to section five hundred fifty of the general business law, to lend money
  to, and to guarantee, endorse, or act as surety  on  the  bonds,  notes,
  contracts, or other obligations of, or otherwise assist financially, any
  person,  firm, corporation or association, and to establish and regulate
  the terms and conditions with respect to any  such  loans  or  financial
  assistance and the charges for interest and service connected therewith;
  provided,  however,  that  it  shall not be the intention hereof to take
  from banking organizations any such  loans  or  commitments  as  may  be
  desired  by such organizations generally in the ordinary course of their
  business.
    (c) To purchase, receive, hold, lease, or otherwise  acquire,  and  to
  sell,  convey,  mortgage,  lease,  pledge, or otherwise dispose of, upon
  such terms and conditions as its board of directors may deem  advisable,
  real  and personal property, together with such rights and privileges as
  may  be  incidental  and  appurtenant  thereto  and  the  use   thereof,
  including, but not restricted to, any real or personal property acquired
  by  such  corporation  from time to time in the satisfaction of debts or
  enforcement of obligations.
    (d) To acquire the good will,  business,  rights,  real  and  personal
  property  and other assets, or any part thereof, of such persons, firms,
  corporations, joint stock companies, associations or trusts as may be in
  furtherance of the corporate purposes provided herein,  and  to  assume,
  undertake,  guarantee  or  pay the obligations, debts and liabilities of
  any such person, firm, corporation, joint stock company, association  or
  trust;  to acquire improved or unimproved real estate for the purpose of
  constructing industrial plants or other business establishments  thereon
  or  for  the  purpose of disposing of such real estate to others for the
  construction of industrial plants or other business establishments, and,
  in furtherance of the corporate purposes provided  herein,  to  acquire,
  construct,  or  reconstruct,  alter,  repair,  maintain,  operate, sell,
  lease,  or  otherwise  dispose  of   industrial   plants   or   business
  establishments.
    (e)  To  acquire,  subscribe  for,  own, hold, sell, assign, transfer,
  mortgage, pledge or otherwise  dispose  of  the  stock,  shares,  bonds,
  debentures,  notes  or other securities and evidences of interest in, or
  indebtedness of, any person, firm,  corporation,  joint  stock  company,
  association or trust, and while the owner or holder thereof, to exercise
  all  the rights, powers and privileges of ownership, including the right
  to vote thereon.
    (f) To cooperate with and avail itself of the facilities of the  state
  department  of  commerce  and  any  other  government  agencies;  and to
  cooperate with and assist, and otherwise encourage, local  organizations
  in the various communities in the state in the promotion, assistance and
  development  of  the  business  prosperity  and economic welfare of such
  communities and of the state.
    (g)  (1)  To  acquire  a  patent  right or any part thereof, from such
  persons, firms, corporations, joint  stock  companies,  associations  or
  trusts  as  may  be  in  furtherance  of the corporate purposes provided
  herein; (2) to assume, undertake,  guarantee  or  pay  the  obligations,
  debts and liabilities of any such person, firm, corporation, joint stock
  company,  association  or  trust; (3) to set forth specific criteria and
  standards by which the corporation shall evaluate  the  patent  and  the
  value  of  patent  rights  evolving  from  that patent; and (4) to allow
  ownership of the patent to remain with the  borrower  and  to  accept  a
  percentage  of  the  patent  rights  as collateral on a loan for capital
  formation of a business.
    (h) With respect to funds administered by the corporation,  to  obtain
  loan  guarantees  from  any  state or federal program to guarantee loans
  made to small businesses by the corporation with such funds.
    3. The corporation may contract  or  otherwise  affiliate  with  local
  development  corporations  and  other  local  development  organizations
  certified for this purpose by the  commissioner  of  the  department  of
  economic  development  throughout  the state, including, but not limited
  to, not-for-profit corporations established pursuant to article nine  of
  the  economic development law, to market the programs of the corporation
  to small and medium sized businesses, to  provide  technical,  financial
  packaging  and  loan  application  assistance to business owners seeking
  financial assistance from the corporation, including but not limited  to
  minority   owned   business  enterprises  and  small  and  medium  sized
  businesses located in economically distressed areas.


::: 213:board_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 213.  Board  of  directors.  1.  All  the  corporate  powers of such
  corporation shall be exercised by a board of directors consisting  of  a
  maximum  of  thirty persons, all of whom shall be of full age, residents
  of the state and at least one-half of whom  shall  be  citizens  of  the
  United States.
    2.  The  president  of such corporation, who shall be appointed by the
  board, shall serve as a director.
    3. At each annual meeting of such corporation,  the  members  of  such
  corporation  shall elect up to ten directors for a term of one year, who
  shall, to the extent possible, represent different economic  regions  as
  defined  in section two hundred eleven of this article. The exact number
  shall be established in the by-laws by the board of directors.  In  such
  elections, members of such corporation shall have one vote each.
    4.  At such annual meetings the stockholders of such corporation shall
  elect up to seven directors for a term  of  one  year  each.  The  exact
  number shall be established in the by-laws by the board of directors.
    5.  One  director  shall  be appointed by any of the entities that are
  members or stockholders of such  corporation  and  whose  membership  or
  stockholder  interest  meets  a minimum commitment as established in the
  by-laws by the board of directors.
    6. The directors elected by the members  and  the  stockholders  shall
  elect  three  additional directors: one representing minority interests,
  one representing women's interests, and  one  representing  regional  or
  local development corporations' interests.
    7.    The state commissioner of the department of economic development
  shall be a director exofficio.
    7-a. Two directors shall be appointed by the governor, who shall serve
  at the pleasure of the governor; one director shall be appointed by  the
  temporary  president  of  the senate, who shall serve at the pleasure of
  the temporary president; one director shall be appointed by  the  senate
  minority leader, who shall serve at the pleasure of the minority leader;
  and  one  appointed  by the assembly minority leader, who shall serve at
  the pleasure of the minority leader; and one director shall be appointed
  by the speaker of the assembly, who shall serve at the pleasure  of  the
  speaker.
    8.  If  any director shall lose his citizenship or shall cease to be a
  resident of the state, he shall immediately vacate  his  position  as  a
  director and such position shall thereupon be deemed vacant.
    9.  If  any  vacancy  occurs in the elected membership of the board of
  directors  through  death,  resignation  or  otherwise,  the   remaining
  directors  shall  elect  a person to fill such vacancy for the unexpired
  term.
    10. Upon the expiration of their terms, the  elected  directors  shall
  continue  as  such  until  their  successors  have been elected and have
  qualified.
    11. The board of directors shall elect one of its members as  chairman
  and  one  of  its  members  as  vice-chairman of such board, shall adopt
  by-laws  for  such  corporation,  and  may  appoint  such  officers  and
  employees as it deems advisable.


::: 214:committees.html
 
    &#167; 214.  Committees.  1.  There  shall  be  a  loan  committee  of such
  corporation for each of  the  twelve  economic  regions  as  defined  in
  section  two hundred eleven of this chapter or such other regions as the
  board of  directors  shall  designate  for  this  purpose.    Each  such
  committee  shall  include  such  persons as the board of directors shall
  designate.
    2. The board of directors of such corporation may establish an  office
  for any such loan committee, within such committee's economic region.
    3.  Every  application  to  such  corporation  for a loan or financial
  assistance shall be made through the loan  committee  for  the  economic
  region  wherein  the  applicant  resides or maintains a regular place of
  business, or directly to one of the regional offices of the corporation.
  Any such applications made  to  a  regional  office  shall  be  promptly
  referred  to  the  loan  committee  for  the economic region wherein the
  applicant resides or maintains a regular place  of  business.  All  such
  applications shall thereupon be reviewed by such regional loan committee
  and promptly transmitted by it to the central loan committee established
  by   the   board   of   directors  for  consideration,  along  with  the
  recommendations of such regional loan committee with respect thereto.
    4. The board of directors shall have the responsibility to appoint all
  necessary board and officer committees to provide for prudent management
  and oversight of such corportion.


::: 215:membership.html
 
    &#167; 215.  Membership.  1.  The members of such corporation shall include
  such banking organizations, insurance and surety companies as  may  make
  application  for  membership  in  such corporation, and membership shall
  become effective upon the acceptance of such applications by  the  board
  of  directors.  Each  member shall lend funds to such corporation as and
  when called upon by it to do so, but the total amount  on  loan  by  any
  member  at  any  one  time  shall  not  exceed the following limit to be
  determined as of the time it became a  member,  and  such  amount  shall
  thereafter be readjusted annually in the event of any change in the base
  of  the  loan  limit  of  such  member;  national  banking associations,
  state-chartered commercial banks and trust companies, two  per  cent  of
  capital  stock  and surplus; New York savings and loan associations, two
  per cent of the surplus account determined as provided in  article  ten,
  section  three  hundred  eighty-five;  savings banks, two percent of net
  worth as defined in article six, section two hundred  forty-four;  stock
  insurance  companies,  two  per  cent of capital and surplus; surety and
  casualty  companies,  two  per  cent  of  capital  and  surplus;  mutual
  insurance  companies,  two  per  cent  of surplus to policy holders; and
  comparable   limits   for   other   banking,   loaning   and   insurance
  organizations,  as  established  by  the  board  of directors; provided,
  however, that the total amount on loan by  any  member  at  anyone  time
  shall  not  exceed  ten million dollars, provided further, however, that
  any member having a loan limit in excess  of  ten  million  dollars  may
  elect  that its total amount on loan at any one time to such corporation
  shall equal said loan limit but in any event  shall  not  exceed  twenty
  million  dollars.  In  the event that two or more members shall merge or
  consolidate, the organization as so merged or consolidated  shall  elect
  that  its total amount on loan to such corporation shall be equal to the
  combined loan limits of such members determined immediately  before  the
  merger  or  consolidation  but in no event to exceed twenty-five million
  dollars  at  any  one  time  outstanding.  All  loan  limits  shall   be
  established  at the thousand dollar nearest to the amount computed on an
  actual basis. All calls of funds which members are committed to lend  to
  such corporation shall be prorated by such corporation among the members
  in  the same proportion that the maximum loan limit of each bears to the
  aggregate loan limits of all  members  of  such  corporation.  Upon  six
  months' prior written notice to the board of directors, a member of such
  corporation  may  withdraw from membership, effective at the end of such
  six month period and, after the effective date of such withdrawal,  such
  member  shall  be  free of obligations hereunder except those accrued or
  committed  by  such  corporation  prior  to  such  effective   date   of
  withdrawal.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, general or
  special,  the  notes  or  other  interest-bearing  obligations  of  such
  corporation, issued in accordance with and by virtue of this article and
  the  by-laws  of  such  corporation,  shall be legal investments for the
  banking,  insurance  and  surety  organizations,  and  other  non-public
  entities  who  become members of such corporation, up to but in no event
  exceeding the loan limits established herein.
    2.  Other  entities  may  make  application  for  membership  in  such
  corporation  according  to such terms and criteria as established by the
  board of directors; except that such  other  entities  may  not  include
  public  benefit  corporations established under the laws of the state of
  New York.


::: 216:capital_stock.html
 
    &#167; 216.  Capital  stock. The capital stock of such corporation shall be
  five hundred thousand shares of common  and  preferred  stock,  in  such
  amounts  as  shall  be  established  in  the  by-laws  by  the  board of
  directors,  with  the  preferred  stock  having  such  relative  rights,
  preferences  and  limitations  as shall be established in the by-laws by
  the board of directors.  At least a majority of  the  capital  stock  of
  such corporation shall at all times be held by residents of the state or
  by persons, firms or corporations engaged in doing business therein.


::: 217:surplus_obligations_and_depositories.html
 
    &#167; 217.  Surplus,  obligations  and  depositories.  1. Such corporation
  shall set apart as an earned surplus all of its net earnings in each and
  every year until such earned  surplus  shall  equal  the  total  of  the
  paid-in  capital  and  paid-in  surplus  then outstanding.   Said earned
  surplus shall be held in cash,  invested  in  United  States  government
  bonds,  or  as provided in such corporation's by-laws, and shall be kept
  and used to meet losses  and  contingencies  of  such  corporation  and,
  whenever the amount of earned surplus shall become impaired, it shall be
  built  up  again  to  the required amount in the manner provided for its
  original accumulation.
    2. At no time shall the total obligations of such  corporation  exceed
  ten  times  the amount of its paid-in capital and surplus, not including
  therein the earned  surplus,  or  two  hundred  fifty  million  dollars,
  whichever is greater.
    3.  Such corporation shall not deposit any of its funds in any banking
  organization unless such banking organization has been designated  as  a
  depository  by  a  vote  of the majority of all of the directors of such
  corporation, exclusive of any director who is an officer or director  of
  the  depository  so designated. Such corporation shall not receive money
  on deposit. Such corporation  shall  not  make  any  loans  directly  or
  indirectly  to  any  of its officers or to any firms in which any of its
  officers is a member or officer.


::: 218:supervision_and_reports.html
 
    &#167; 218.  Supervision  and reports. Such corporation shall be subject to
  the supervision,  examination  and  control  of  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services  in  the same manner as banking organizations are so
  supervised, examined and controlled by him pursuant to this chapter, and
  shall be examined by him annually, but such  corporation  shall  not  be
  deemed  to  be  a  banking organization nor be required to pay a fee for
  such an examination. Such corporation shall make an annual report of its
  condition to the governor, legislature and superintendent  of  financial
  services, on or before January first of each year.
    Commencing  January  first,  nineteen  hundred eighty-six, such annual
  report shall contain but not be limited to the following:
    a. information on the cost and sources of funds and  capital  and  the
  total  allowable  maximum  amount  available  from  members, the maximum
  amount committed  by  each  individual  member,  and  the  corporation's
  outstanding liabilities to members;
    b.  classification of firms in the corporation's portfolio by standard
  industrial code, including a breakdown of (i) size of firms by sales and
  number  of  employees,  (ii)  number  and   percentage   of   loans   to
  manufacturing,  service  and  wholesale businesses, and (iii) number and
  percentage of loans to traditional industries  and  to  high  technology
  firms within the manufacturing sector;
    c.  information on the types of financing provided by the corporation,
  including guaranteed loans, the size and term of loans, and a  breakdown
  of investments by senior debt, subordinated debt and equity financings;
    d.  information  on  interest  rates of loans, including percentage of
  fixed rate and variable rate loans;
    e. information on the use of  capital  provided  by  the  corporation,
  including  number  of  working  capital loans, loans to assist leveraged
  buyouts by employees, management or others, and  secured  mortgages  for
  plant expansion or new production facilities;
    f.  information  on  how  the corporation is fulfilling its mission to
  assist women and minority owned businesses;
    g.  information  on  resources  and  actions  taken  to  advance   the
  corporation's marketing program;
    h.  information  on  the  corporation's  regional offices, including a
  description of the volume of business and the nature of loan activity at
  each office;
    i. information on the activities of the corporation's MESBIC; and
    j. information on the corporation's pilot  export  financing  program,
  including  the  number  of  firms  serviced  and the types of assistance
  provided.


::: 219:unissued_securities_and_reorganization.html
 
    &#167; 219.  Unissued  securities  and  reorganization.  1.  The holders of
  capital  stock  of  such  corporation  shall  not,  as  such,  have  any
  preemptive  or  preferential right to purchase or subscribe for any part
  of the unissued or new issue  of  capital  stock  of  such  corporation,
  whether  now  or  hereafter  authorized  or  issued,  or  to purchase or
  subscribe for any bonds or other obligations, whether or not convertible
  into stock of such corporation, now or hereafter authorized or issued.
    2. Whenever a compromise or arrangement or any plan of  reorganization
  of  such  corporation  is  proposed  between  such  corporation  and its
  creditors, members or stockholders, the supreme court, by virtue of  its
  general  equity powers may, on application of such corporation or of any
  creditor, member or stockholder thereof, or on the  application  of  any
  receiver or receivers appointed for such corporation, order a meeting of
  such  creditors,  members or stockholders, as the case may be, as may be
  affected  by  the  proposed  compromise  or  arrangement  or   plan   of
  reorganization,  which  shall be called in such manner as the said court
  directs. If, at such meeting, such compromise or arrangement or plan  of
  reorganization  is  agreed  to  by  or  on  behalf  of the creditors, if
  affected thereby, holding two-thirds in amount  of  the  claims  against
  such  corporation,  and by or on behalf of the stockholders, if affected
  thereby, holding the majority of capital stock, and by or on  behalf  of
  the  members,  if  affected thereby, holding two-thirds in amount of the
  outstanding  notes  or  other  interest-bearing  obligations   of   such
  corporation  as  provided  for  in  section  two hundred fifteen of this
  chapter, and if such agreement shall be further evidenced by the written
  acceptance of said creditors, stockholders and members,  duly  filed  in
  the said court, such compromise or arrangement or plan of reorganization
  shall,  if  approved by the said court as just and equitable, be binding
  on all creditors, stockholders or members, as the case may be,  who  are
  affected  thereby,  and also on such corporation. All persons who become
  creditors, stockholders or members of such corporation shall  be  deemed
  to  have  become  creditors,  stockholders  or  members  subject  in all
  respects to this section, and the same shall be absolutely binding  upon
  them.  For  the  purposes of this subdivision only, members shall not be
  deemed to be creditors  and  shall  act  under  this  subdivision  as  a
  separate class.


::: 21:collection_of_assessments_penalties_and_forfeitures_proceedings_by_attorney_general.html
 
    &#167;   21.   Collection   of   assessments,  penalties  and  forfeitures;
  proceedings by attorney general. 1. When the superintendent, pursuant to
  the powers conferred on him or her by  this  article,  shall  have  duly
  levied  any  assessment  and  shall  have  given due notification of the
  amount thereof, the amount so assessed shall become a liability of,  and
  shall  be  paid  to the superintendent by any person or entity licensed,
  registered, or incorporated or otherwise formed pursuant to this chapter
  upon which it was levied.
    2. If any person or entity licensed, registered,  or  incorporated  or
  otherwise  formed  pursuant  to  this  chapter  shall not pay, after due
  notice, any such assessment or any penalty or forfeiture incurred  under
  any  section  of  this  chapter,  the  superintendent may, in his or her
  discretion, apply in payment thereof, with interest at the  legal  rate,
  so  much  as  may be necessary of the interest accruing on any stocks or
  bonds deposited with him or her  by  such  person  or  entity  licensed,
  registered, or incorporated or otherwise formed pursuant to this chapter
  pursuant to any requirement of this chapter.
    3.  The  superintendent  may,  in his or her discretion, report to the
  attorney general any failure to make such payments or the failure of any
  officer,  director,  trustee,  or  employee  of  any  person  or  entity
  licensed,  registered,  or  incorporated or otherwise formed pursuant to
  this chapter, after  due  notice,  to  pay  any  penalty  or  forfeiture
  incurred  by  him  or  her  under  any provision of this chapter, or any
  violation by any corporation, unincorporated  association,  partnership,
  individual,  or  any other entity, of any provision of this chapter. The
  attorney general shall thereupon, in the name of the superintendent,  or
  of  the people of the state, institute such action or proceedings as the
  facts may warrant.
    4. The provisions of this section shall  be  applicable  to  any  bank
  holding  company,  as  that  term  is defined in article three-A of this
  chapter.


::: 220:participation.html
 
    &#167; 220.  Participation.  Notwithstanding  any rule at common law or any
  provision of any general or  special  law  or  any  provision  in  their
  respective    charters,   agreements   of   association,   articles   of
  organization, certificates of incorporation, or trust indentures:
    1. All domestic corporations organized for the purpose of carrying  on
  business  within  this state, including, without implied limitation, any
  railroad or transportation  corporation,  and  all  trusts,  are  hereby
  authorized to acquire, purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage,
  pledge  or otherwise dispose of any bonds, securities or other evidences
  of indebtedness created by, or the shares of the capital  stock  of  the
  corporation established by this article and, while owners of said stock,
  to  exercise  all  the  rights,  powers  and  privileges  of  ownership,
  including the right to vote thereon, all without  the  approval  of  any
  regulatory authority of this state;
    2.  All  banking organizations are hereby authorized to become members
  of the corporation established by this article and to make loans to such
  corporation as provided herein;
    3.  All  banking  organizations  are  hereby  authorized  to  acquire,
  purchase,  hold,  sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge, or otherwise
  dispose of any bonds, securities  or  other  evidences  of  indebtedness
  issued by such corporation or the shares of its capital stock, and while
  owners  of said stock, to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges
  of ownership, including the right  to  vote  thereon,  all  without  the
  approval  of  any  regulatory  authority  of  this  state. The amount of
  capital stock of such corporation  which  any  banking  organization  is
  authorized  to acquire pursuant to the authority granted herein shall be
  in addition to the amount of capital stock in  corporations  which  such
  banking organization may otherwise be authorized to acquire.
    * &#167; 220.  Participation.  1. Notwithstanding any rule at common law or
  any provision of any general or special law or any  provision  in  their
  respective    charters,   agreements   of   association,   articles   of
  organization, certificates of incorporation, or trust indentures:
    (a) All domestic corporations organized for the purpose of carrying on
  business within this state, including, without implied  limitation,  any
  railroad  or  transportation  corporation,  and  all  trusts, are hereby
  authorized to acquire, purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage,
  pledge or otherwise dispose of any bonds, securities or other  evidences
  of  indebtedness  created  by, or the shares of the capital stock of the
  corporation established by this article and, while owners of said stock,
  to  exercise  all  the  rights,  powers  and  privileges  of  ownership,
  including  the  right  to  vote thereon, all without the approval of any
  regulatory authority of this state;
    (b) All banking organizations are hereby authorized to become  members
  of the corporation established by this article and to make loans to such
  corporation as provided herein;
    (c)  All  banking  organizations  are  hereby  authorized  to acquire,
  purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge,  or  otherwise
  dispose  of  any  bonds,  securities  or other evidences of indebtedness
  issued by such corporation or the shares of its capital stock, and while
  owners of said stock, to exercise all the rights, powers and  privileges
  of  ownership,  including  the  right  to  vote thereon, all without the
  approval of any regulatory  authority  of  this  state.  The  amount  of
  capital  stock  of  such  corporation  which any banking organization is
  authorized to acquire pursuant to the authority granted herein shall  be
  in  addition  to  the amount of capital stock in corporations which such
  banking organization may otherwise be authorized to acquire.
    2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any  general,  special  or  local
  law, the notes and other interest-bearing obligations of the corporation
  shall  be  legal investments for any fund defined in section one hundred
  seventy-six of the retirement and social security law; provided however,
  that  any  such  investment  shall  meet  the  criteria   contained   in
  subdivision seven of section one hundred seventy-seven of the retirement
  and  social  security  law,  and  shall  be made only pursuant to a loan
  agreement between such  fund  and  the  corporation.  Provided  further,
  however, that such agreement shall not permit loans exceeding the lesser
  of:  (i)  two  percent  of  the assets of such fund; or (ii) one hundred
  million dollars principal amount.
    * NB Expired December 31, 1988


::: 221-a:doing_business_without_license_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 221-a.  Doing  business  without  license  prohibited. 1. No person,
  co-partnership,  association,  corporation   or   other   entity   shall
  establish,  maintain  or  use  one  or more offices in this state as the
  representative of one or more foreign banking  corporations  unless  the
  foreign  banking  corporation  to  be  represented  has first obtained a
  license from the superintendent of financial services. Entities lawfully
  registered pursuant to  this  article  on  or  before  September  first,
  nineteen  hundred  ninety-two  shall be deemed licensed pursuant to this
  section until September first, nineteen  hundred  ninety-four,  provided
  however  that  the  superintendent  may  require  the  submission of any
  additional documents or materials relating to the business activities of
  the registrant as he or she may deem necessary or appropriate.
    2. Upon receipt of a license,  the  foreign  banking  corporation  may
  establish  one  or more representative offices in this state which shall
  be subject to examination whenever in the superintendent's judgment such
  examination is necessary or advisable.
    3.  Such  office  shall  be  limited  to  conducting   the   following
  activities:  solicitation of loans and in connection therewith, assembly
  of  credit  information,  making of property inspections and appraisals,
  securing of title information, preparation  of  applications  for  loans
  including   making  recommendations  with  respect  to  action  thereon,
  solicitation of investors to purchase loans from the  bank,  the  search
  for  such  investors to contract with the bank for the servicing of such
  loans; solicitation of new business and conduct of research.  Any  other
  activity  which the foreign banking corporation seeks to conduct at such
  office,  shall  be  subject  to  the  prior  written  approval  of   the
  superintendent by general regulation or upon application in such form as
  the superintendent may prescribe.


::: 221-b:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 221-b.  Definitions.  1.  Banking  institution.  The  term  "banking
  institution",  when  used  in  this  article,  shall  mean  any   entity
  authorized by its charter to accept deposits and to make loans.
    2.   Foreign   banking   corporation.   The   term   "foreign  banking
  corporation",  when  used  in  this  article,  shall  mean  any  banking
  institution  organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the
  United States, any state of the United States or Puerto Rico.
    3. Representative. The term "representative" shall mean any person  or
  entity  engaging  in  any  activity  in this state for or on behalf of a
  foreign  banking  corporation,  provided  that  such  activity  is   not
  otherwise permitted by law.
    4.  The  superintendent  shall  be authorized to exempt from the above
  definitions such additional persons,  entities,  activities  or  classes
  thereof  which  shall  be  deemed appropriate in order to effectuate the
  purposes of this article.


::: 221-c:application_for_license_fees.html
 
    &#167; 221-c.  Application  for  license;  fees.  The  application for such
  license shall be in writing under oath and shall contain the information
  required by and be in the form prescribed by the superintendent. As part
  of the application, the foreign banking corporation  shall  appoint  the
  superintendent  or  his or her successor as agent for service of process
  in connection with any action or proceeding against the foreign  banking
  corporation  relating  to  any  cause of action which may arise out of a
  transaction with its representative office,  with  the  same  force  and
  effect as if it were a domestic corporation and had been lawfully served
  with  process in this state. At the time of making such application, the
  applicant shall pay  to  the  superintendent  an  investigation  fee  as
  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.


::: 221-d:conditions_precedent_to_issuing_license_procedure_where_application_denied.html
 
    &#167; 221-d.  Conditions  precedent  to  issuing  license; procedure where
  application denied. Upon the filing of an application for a license,  if
  the   superintendent  shall  find  that  the  financial  responsibility,
  experience, character,  and  general  fitness  of  the  foreign  banking
  corporation and its representative are such as to command the confidence
  of  the  community  and  to  warrant belief that the representative will
  operate honestly, fairly, and efficiently within the purpose and  intent
  of  this  article,  a  license shall thereupon be issued in duplicate to
  conduct the activity described in  section  221-a  of  this  article  in
  accordance  with  the  provisions of this article. If the superintendent
  shall not so find, the license shall not be issued,  and  the  applicant
  shall  be  notified of the denial. The superintendent shall transmit one
  copy of such license to the applicant and file another in the office  of
  the  department of financial services. Such license shall remain in full
  force and effect until it is surrendered by the licensee or  revoked  or
  suspended  as  hereinafter provided. The superintendent shall approve or
  deny every application for a license hereunder within ninety  days  from
  the  filing  thereof  provided,  however, that failure to act within the
  prescribed period shall not be deemed approval of any such application.


::: 221-e:license_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 221-e.  License  provisions.  Each license issued under this article
  shall state the address or addresses at which a representative is to  be
  located  and  shall  state  fully the name of the licensee. Such license
  shall not be transferable or assignable. In the event  the  location  of
  the representative shall be changed, the licensee shall forthwith notify
  the  superintendent  who  shall  thereupon  without charge attach to the
  license an amendment certificate setting forth such changed location.


::: 221-f:grounds_for_suspension_or_revocation_of_license_procedure.html
 
    &#167; 221-f.  Grounds  for suspension or revocation of license; procedure.
  1.  The superintendent may revoke any license  issued  hereunder  if  it
  shall be found that:
    (a)  The  licensee or its representative has violated any provision of
  this article, or of any rule or regulation made  by  the  superintendent
  under and within the authority of this article or of any other law, rule
  or regulation of this state.
    (b)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the original application for such license, would have  warranted  the
  superintendent in refusing originally to issue such license.
    2.  The  superintendent  may, on good cause shown, suspend any license
  for a period not exceeding thirty days, pending investigation.
    3. Except as provided in subdivision two of this section,  no  license
  shall be revoked or suspended except after notice and a hearing thereon.
    4.  Any  licensee  may  surrender  any  license  by  delivering to the
  superintendent written notice that it thereby surrenders  such  license,
  but  such  surrender  shall not affect such licensee's civil or criminal
  liability for acts committed prior to such surrender.
    5. Every license issued hereunder shall remain  in  force  and  effect
  until  the  same  shall  have  been surrendered, revoked or suspended in
  accordance with the provisions of this article, but  the  superintendent
  shall  have authority to reinstate a suspended license or to issue a new
  license to a licensee whose license shall have been revoked if  no  fact
  or  condition  then exists which would have warranted the superintendent
  in refusing originally to issue such license under this article.
    6. Whenever the superintendent  shall  revoke  or  suspend  a  license
  issued  pursuant  to  this article, a written order shall be immediately
  executed in duplicate to that effect. The superintendent shall file  one
  copy of such order in the office of the department of financial services
  and  shall  forthwith  serve  the other copy upon the licensee. Any such
  order may be reviewed in the manner provided by article seventy-eight of
  the civil practice  law  and  rules.  Such  application  for  review  as
  authorized by this section must be made within thirty days from the date
  of such order of suspension or revocation.


::: 221-g:superintendent_authorized_to_examine_expenses.html
 
    &#167; 221-g.  Superintendent  authorized  to  examine;  expenses.  For the
  purpose  of  discovering  violations  of  this   article   or   securing
  information  lawfully  required by him hereunder, the superintendent may
  at any time, and as often as may be determined, either personally or  by
  a   person  duly  designated  by  him,  investigate  the  activities  of
  representatives of licensees and examine the books,  accounts,  records,
  and  files  used  in relation to those activities.  For that purpose the
  superintendent and a duly designated representative (i) shall have  free
  access  to  the  offices, books, accounts, papers, records, files, safes
  and vaults of licensees and their representatives, and (ii)  shall  have
  authority  to  require  the  attendance of and to examine under oath all
  persons whose testimony may be required relative to the activities of  a
  representative. The expenses incurred in making any examination pursuant
  to  this  section  shall be assessed against and paid by the licensee so
  examined, except that traveling and  subsistence  expenses  so  incurred
  shall  be  charged  against and paid by licensees in such proportions as
  the  superintendent  shall  deem   just   and   reasonable,   and   such
  proportionate  charges  shall  be  added  to the assessment of the other
  expenses incurred upon each examination.  Upon  written  notice  by  the
  superintendent  of  the  total  amount  of such assessment, the licensee
  shall  become  liable  for  and  shall  pay  such  assessment   to   the
  superintendent.


::: 221-h:licensees_books_and_records_reports.html
 
    &#167; 221-h.  Licensee's  books  and  records;  reports. A foreign banking
  corporation licensed pursuant to this article shall keep or  cause  each
  of  its representatives to keep and use such books, accounts and records
  as  will  enable   the   superintendent   to   determine   whether   the
  representative is complying with the provisions of this article and with
  the  rules  and  regulations  lawfully  made by the superintendent. Such
  books, accounts and records shall be preserved for at least three years;
  provided however, that preservation by photographic reproduction thereof
  or records in photographic form shall  constitute  compliance  with  the
  requirements of this section.
    The  superintendent may require such regular or special reports as may
  be deemed necessary to the proper supervision of  licensees  under  this
  article.  Such additional reports shall be in the form prescribed by the
  superintendent and shall be subscribed and affirmed as  true  under  the
  penalties of perjury.


::: 221-i:notice_of_acquisition_of_control_or_merger.html
 
    &#167; 221-i.  Notice  of  acquisition  of control or merger. 1.  A foreign
  banking corporation licensed pursuant to  this  article  to  maintain  a
  representative office in this state shall file with the superintendent a
  notice,   in   such   form   and  containing  such  information  as  the
  superintendent may prescribe, no later than fourteen calendar days after
  such foreign banking corporation becomes aware  of  any  acquisition  of
  control  of  such  corporation  or  merges  with another foreign banking
  corporation.
    2. Control, for purposes of this section, means any person or  entity,
  or  group  of  persons  or  entities  acting  in  concert,  directly  or
  indirectly,  owning,  controlling,  or  holding  with  power  to   vote,
  twenty-five percent or more of any class of voting stock of such foreign
  banking  corporation,  or  having  the  ability in any manner to elect a
  majority of the  directors  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation,  or
  otherwise  exercising  a  controlling  influence over the management and
  policies  of  such  foreign  banking  corporation  as  defined  by   the
  superintendent by regulation.


::: 221-j:authority_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 221-j.  Authority  of  superintendent.  The superintendent is hereby
  authorized and empowered to  promulgate,  in  addition  hereto  and  not
  inconsistent  herewith, such general rules and regulations, definitions,
  and such specific  rulings,  demands  and  findings  as  may  be  deemed
  necessary for the proper conduct of the business authorized and licensed
  hereunder and for the enforcement of this article.


::: 221-k:separability_of_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 221-k. Separability of provisions. If any provision of this article,
  or   the  application  of  such  provision  to  any  person,  entity  or
  circumstance, shall be held invalid, the remainder of the  article,  and
  the  application of such provision to persons, entities or circumstances
  other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not  be  affected
  thereby.


::: 222:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 222.  Definitions.  In this article, the following definitions shall
  apply:
    1. The term "out-of-state bank" means an out-of-state state  bank,  an
  out-of-state   national   bank,   or  an  out-of-state  federal  savings
  association.
    2. The term "out-of-state state bank" means a state bank, as such term
  is defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance  Act  (12
  U.S.C.  1813(a)(2)),  or  an out-of-state state-chartered trust company,
  but such term shall not include a banking organization.
    3. The term "out-of-state national  bank"  means  a  national  banking
  association the main office of which is located outside this state.
    4.  The  term  "out-of-state  federal  savings  association" means any
  federal savings association or federal savings bank which  is  chartered
  under  Section  5  of the Home Owners Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464) the home
  office of which is located outside this state.
    5. The term "out-of-state trust company"  means  either  a  nationally
  chartered trust company or an out-of-state state-chartered trust company
  that  has  the power to exercise fiduciary powers, but is not insured by
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    6. The term "New York bank" means a bank, trust company savings  bank,
  or   savings   and  loan  association  as  such  terms  are  defined  in
  subdivisions one, two, four and eight of section two of this chapter.
    7. The term "state" means any state of the United States  (other  than
  this  state),  the  District  of  Columbia,  any territory of the United
  States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust  Territory  of  the
  Pacific  Islands,  the  United  States  Virgin Islands, and the Northern
  Mariana Islands.
    8. The term "home state" means with respect to an  out-of-state  state
  bank  or out-of-state state-chartered trust company, the state under the
  laws  of  which   such   out-of-state   state   bank   or   out-of-state
  state-chartered  trust  company  is incorporated or otherwise organized,
  and with respect to an out-of-state national bank or trust company,  the
  state in which such out-of-state national bank's or trust company's main
  office is located.
    9.  The term "acquisition transaction" means any merger, consolidation
  or purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of all or part of  a
  banking institution.
    10.  The  term "like-type banking organization" means, with respect to
  an out-of-state bank, a banking organization with the  type  of  charter
  that  most  nearly corresponds to the charter of such out-of-state bank,
  as determined by the superintendent.
    11. The term "appropriate  state  supervisor"  means  the  home  state
  supervisor   with   supervisory  and  regulatory  jurisdiction  over  an
  out-of-state state bank or out-of-state state-chartered trust company in
  its home state.
    12. The term "banking institution"  means  any  bank,  trust  company,
  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  or branch of a foreign
  banking corporation the deposits of which are  insured  by  the  federal
  deposit   insurance   corporation,  which  is  incorporated,  chartered,
  organized or licensed under the laws of this state or any other state of
  the United States, or under the laws of the United States.
    13. The term "branch" means any office of  a  banking  institution  at
  which  deposits  are  received,  checks  paid  or money lent. Except for
  purposes of subdivision three of section two hundred twenty-four of this
  article, the term shall not include an automated teller machine or other
  electronic facility. For purposes of this  article,  the  term  "branch"
  shall  also  refer  to  the  principal  or  main  office  of  a  banking
  institution.
    14. The term "trust office" means an office of a  banking  institution
  other  than  a  branch at which such institution may conduct one or more
  fiduciary activities permitted for a trust company.


::: 223-a:establishment_of_branches_by_outofstate_banks_by_de_novo_branching.html
 
    &#167;  223-a.  Establishment  of branches by out-of-state banks by de novo
  branching. In addition to the  authority  of  an  out-of-state  bank  to
  maintain a branch or branches by means of an acquisition transaction, an
  out-of-state  bank  may  establish  one or more de novo branches in this
  state; provided, however, that an out-of-state state bank  shall  obtain
  the  superintendent's prior approval in accordance with the requirements
  in section two hundred twenty-four of this chapter.


::: 223:establishment_of_branches_or_trust_offices_by_means_of_an_acquistion_transaction.html
 
    &#167;  223.  Establishment  of  branches  or  trust offices by means of an
  acquisition transaction. An out-of-state bank may maintain one  or  more
  branches  or  one  or more trust offices located in this state that have
  been acquired by means of an acquisition transaction.


::: 224-a:change_of_location_of_branches_or_trust_offices_by_outofstate_state_banks_or_outofstate_statechartered_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167;   224-a.  Change  of  location  of  branches  or  trust  offices  by
  out-of-state  state  banks   or   out-of-state   state-chartered   trust
  companies.  An  application  for approval containing such information as
  the superintendent deems necessary shall be submitted by an out-of-state
  state bank or an out-of-state state-chartered trust company prior to the
  relocation of a branch or trust office in this state.  At  the  time  of
  making  such application, an investigation fee as prescribed pursuant to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be paid to  the  superintendent
  for  each  branch  or  trust office for which approval is sought. If the
  superintendent shall be satisfied that such relocation may be  permitted
  under  the  terms  of  this  chapter  and  that  there  is no reasonable
  objection to such change, he or she shall approve such application.


::: 224:application_for_the_establishment_of_branches_or_trust_offices_not_resulting_from_an_acquistion_transaction_retention_of_branches_or_trust_offices_resulting_from_merger_or_acquistion.html
 
    &#167; 224.  Application for the establishment of branches or trust offices
  not resulting from an acquisition transaction; retention of branches  or
  trust  offices  resulting  from merger or acquisition. 1. An application
  for approval to the superintendent containing such information as he  or
  she  deems  necessary  shall  be submitted by an out-of-state state bank
  prior to the establishment of each branch. At the time  of  making  such
  application,  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed pursuant to section
  eighteen-a of this chapter shall be paid to the superintendent for  each
  branch  for  which  approval is sought. If the superintendent finds that
  the opening of the branch is not  consistent  with  the  declaration  of
  policy  set forth in section ten of this chapter, he or she shall notify
  the applicant that the application  has  been  denied.  An  out-of-state
  state  bank  or  out-of-state  state-chartered  trust company seeking to
  establish one or more trust offices in this state shall comply with  the
  notice  procedures  set forth in subdivision four of section one hundred
  thirty-one of this chapter.
    2. Subject to the  provisions  of  this  article,  if  the  merger  or
  acquisition  agreement  so  provides,  an  out-of-state  state  bank may
  maintain as a branch or branches or trust office or  trust  offices  the
  place  or  places  of  business  of any banking institution which it has
  received  into  itself  as  a  result  of  an  acquisition   transaction
  authorized by this article.
    3.  No out-of-state state bank shall open, occupy or maintain a branch
  in this state at  a  location  not  permitted  to  a  like-type  banking
  organization.


::: 225-a:power_of_superintendent_to_examine_branches_or_trust_offices_of_outofstate_state_banks_or_outofstate_statechartered_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167;  225-a. Power of superintendent to examine branches or trust offices
  of  out-of-state  state  banks  or  out-of-state  state-chartered  trust
  companies. The superintendent shall have the power at any time in his or
  her  discretion  to examine every branch or trust office located in this
  state of an out-of-state  state  bank  or  out-of-state  state-chartered
  trust  company  for  the  same  purposes  and  to  the same extent as is
  provided in the case of banking organizations pursuant to the provisions
  of this chapter.


::: 225-b:applicability_of_certain_sections_to_outofstate_banks.html
 
    &#167;  225-b.  Applicability of certain sections to out-of-state banks. 1.
  Except as otherwise provided in this section, nothing in article five or
  article five-B of this chapter shall apply to an  out-of-state  bank  or
  out-of-state  trust  company  authorized  to open, occupy and maintain a
  branch pursuant to the provisions of this  article  or  a  trust  office
  pursuant  to  this article or to subdivision four of section one hundred
  thirty-one of this chapter. Any reference in this chapter (other than in
  article five or article five-B) to a foreign bank,  foreign  corporation
  or  foreign  banking corporation shall be deemed to be a reference to an
  out-of-state bank or out-of-state  trust  company  authorized  to  open,
  occupy  and maintain a branch pursuant to the provisions of this article
  or a trust office pursuant to this article or  to  subdivision  four  of
  section  one  hundred  thirty-one  of  this chapter. Notwithstanding the
  foregoing, the provisions of section two  hundred  two-h  (Repayment  of
  deposits  standing in the names of minors, trustees, joint depositors or
  custodians; interpleader in certain  actions),  of  this  chapter  shall
  apply  with equal force and effect to out-of-state banks or out-of-state
  trust companies authorized to open, occupy or maintain branches pursuant
  to the provisions of this article.
    2. The provisions of section three hundred ninety-nine-a,  subdivision
  three  of  section  one  hundred  thirty, subdivision two of section one
  hundred forty-three, subdivision five of section two hundred forty-seven
  and subdivision five  of  section  three  hundred  ninety-nine  of  this
  chapter  with respect to restrictions on executive officers or directors
  of foreign banking corporations and the provisions of  sections  twenty,
  twenty-six, thirty, thirty-one and six hundred thirty-four, subdivisions
  eleven  and  twelve  of  section  six  hundred five, subdivision four of
  section six hundred six and paragraph (a) of subdivision one of  section
  fourteen  of  this  chapter,  shall  not  apply  to  out-of-state  banks
  authorized  to  open,  occupy  or  maintain  branches  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of this article.


::: 225:interstate_acquisition_transactions.html
 
    &#167; 225.  Interstate  acquisition  transactions. 1. An out-of-state bank
  may engage in an acquisition transaction with a New York bank or with  a
  banking  institution located in New York and may maintain as a branch or
  branches or trust  office  or  trust  offices,  the  branches  or  trust
  offices,  respectively, of any such New York bank or banking institution
  which it has received into itself  as  a  result  of  such  transaction,
  subject to the requirements of this article.
    2.  Except  when  section twenty-nine of this chapter applies, section
  six hundred one or six hundred one-a of this chapter, as  the  case  may
  be,  and  section  six  hundred one-b of this chapter shall apply to any
  acquisition transaction in which the receiving corporation is a New York
  bank. In the case of  an  acquisition  transaction  authorized  by  this
  article  in  which an out-of-state bank or out-of-state trust company is
  the receiving corporation, the out-of-state bank or  out-of-state  trust
  company  shall  file  with  the superintendent a copy of any application
  filed with the appropriate  state  supervisor  and  appropriate  federal
  banking agency.
    3.  At  the  time  when  a  merger or consolidation authorized by this
  article or by section six hundred of this chapter becomes effective:
    (a) the resulting or consolidated corporation shall be considered  the
  same   business   and  corporate  entity  as  each  of  the  constituent
  corporations;
    (b) all the property, rights, powers and franchises  of  each  of  the
  constituent  corporations  shall  vest  in the resulting or consolidated
  corporation and the  resulting  or  consolidated  corporation  shall  be
  subject  to  and  shall  be  deemed  to  have  assumed all of the debts,
  liabilities, obligations and duties of each constituent corporation  and
  to  have  succeeded to all of its relationships, fiduciary or otherwise,
  as fully and to the same extent as if  such  property,  rights,  powers,
  franchises,  debts,  liabilities,  obligations, duties and relationships
  had been originally acquired, incurred or entered into by the  resulting
  or consolidated corporation;
    (c)  any  reference to a constituent corporation in any contract, will
  or document, whether executed or  taking  effect  before  or  after  the
  merger  or  consolidation,  shall  be  considered  a  reference  to  the
  resulting or consolidated corporation if not inconsistent with the other
  provisions of the contract, will or document;
    (d) a pending  action  or  other  judicial  proceeding  to  which  any
  constituent  corporation  is a party, shall not be deemed to have abated
  or to have discontinued by reason of the merger  or  consolidation,  but
  may  be prosecuted to final judgment, order or decree in the same manner
  as if the merger or consolidation had not been made, or the resulting or
  consolidated corporation may be substituted as a party to such action or
  proceeding, and any judgment, order or decree may  be  rendered  for  or
  against it that might have been rendered for or against such constituent
  corporation if the merger or consolidation had not occurred; and
    (e) nothing in this subdivision shall be deemed to authorize a banking
  institution  to  exercise  any  power  or  engage  in  any  activity not
  otherwise permitted under its charter.
    4. In the case of a merger or consolidation authorized by this article
  in which an out-of-state bank  or  out-of-state  trust  company  is  the
  resulting  or consolidated corporation, the franchise of any constituent
  New  York  bank  shall  automatically  terminate  when  the  merger   or
  consolidation is consummated.


::: 226:powers_of_outofstate_state_banks.html
 
    &#167; 226.  Powers of out-of-state state banks. An out-of-state state bank
  that opens, occupies or maintains a branch in this state  as  authorized
  by  this article shall have in this state the same powers under the laws
  of this state as a like-type banking organization.


::: 227-b:rules_and_regulations.html
 
    &#167; 227-b.  Rules  and  regulations.  The  superintendent shall have the
  authority to promulgate such rules and regulations consistent  with  the
  purposes  of  this  article, including but not limited to such rules and
  regulations as may define the terms used in this article and as  may  be
  necessary   or  appropriate  to  interpret,  implement  or  enforce  the
  provisions thereof.


::: 227-c:separability_of_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 227-c. Separability of provisions. If any provision of this article,
  or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance shall
  be  held  invalid, the remainder of this article, and the application of
  such provisions thereof to persons or circumstances other than those  as
  to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 227:powers_permitted_to_outofstate_branches_of_new_york_banks.html
 
    &#167; 227. Powers permitted to out-of-state branches of New York banks.  A
  New  York  bank  that  opens,  occupies and maintains one or more branch
  offices in any state may exercise such powers at such branch or branches
  as would be permitted at such place or places to an  out-of-state  state
  bank  maintaining  a branch or branches at such place or places with the
  type of charter that most nearly corresponds to the charter of such  New
  York  bank; provided, however, that prior to exercising in any state any
  power not permitted to be exercised by such New York bank in this state,
  it shall apply to the superintendent to exercise such power and approval
  therefor shall be given unless the superintendent  determines  that  the
  exercise  of  such  power  is  contrary  to  the  declaration  of policy
  contained in section ten of this chapter.


::: 228-a:establishment.html
 
    &#167; 228-a.  Establishment.  1. A small business investment company to be
  known as the "New York small  business  investment  company,"  shall  be
  organized  under  the  business  corporation  law  and operated so as to
  qualify for licensing under Section 301(c) and applicable regulations. A
  specialized small business investment company to be known  as  the  "New
  York  specialized small business investment company," shall be organized
  under the business corporation law and operated so  as  to  qualify  for
  licensing under Section 301(d) and applicable regulations. The corporate
  structure,  organization,  and  activities of the NYSBIC and the NYSSBIC
  shall be in conformity with the requirements of Title III and 13  C.F.R.
  Pt. 107.
    2.  The  business  corporation  law  shall apply to the NYSBIC and the
  NYSSBIC, except  that  in  case  of  a  conflict  between  the  business
  corporation  law  and this article, the provisions of this article shall
  govern. If there is in this article a provision  relating  to  a  matter
  embraced  in the business corporation law and not in conflict therewith,
  both provisions shall apply.
    3. The governor, in consultation with the president  pro  tem  of  the
  senate  and  the speaker of the assembly, on behalf of the people of the
  state of New York, the New York business  development  corporation,  and
  the  voting shareholders, on or before April thirtieth, nineteen hundred
  ninety-four, shall enter into a memorandum of understanding on an agreed
  upon plan for establishing the NYSBIC and  the  NYSSBIC,  including  the
  legal,  organizational  and  financial  structure  of the NYSBIC and the
  NYSSBIC.


::: 228-b:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 228-b. Definitions. As used in this article, the following terms and
  abbreviations shall have the meanings indicated:
    1. "NYSBIC" means the New York small business investment company which
  shall  be  organized  and operated in conformity with Section 301(c) and
  applicable regulations.
    2. "NYSSBIC" means the New York specialized small business  investment
  company which shall be organized and operated in conformity with Section
  301(d) and applicable regulations.
    3.  "Highly  distressed  area"  means: (a) a census tract or tracts or
  block numbering area or areas or such census tract  or  block  numbering
  area  contiguous thereto which, according to the most recent census data
  available, has:
    (i) a poverty rate of at least twenty percent for the  year  to  which
  the  data relates or at least twenty percent of the households receiving
  public assistance; and
    (ii) an  unemployment  rate  of  at  least  one  and  twenty-five  one
  hundredths  times  the statewide unemployment rate for the year to which
  the data relates; or
    (b) a city, town, village or county within a city with a population of
  one million or more for which: (i) the ratio of the full value  property
  wealth,  as  determined by the comptroller for the year nineteen hundred
  ninety, per resident to the statewide average full value property wealth
  per resident; and (ii) the ratio of the income per resident, as shown in
  the nineteen hundred ninety census to the statewide average  income  per
  resident; are each fifty-five percent or less of the statewide average.
    4.   "Investment   companies"   means   the  NYSBIC  and  the  NYSSBIC
  collectively.
    5. "Section 301(c)" means Section  301(c)  of  Title  III,  15  U.S.C.
  681(c).
    6.  "Section  301(d)"  means  Section  301(d)  of Title III, 15 U.S.C.
  681(d).
    7. "Title III" means Title III of the Small Business Investment Act of
  1958, United States Pub. L. 85-699 (as amended).
    8. "Voting shareholders" means those shareholders of the NYSBIC or the
  NYSSBIC that contribute to the capitalization and ongoing funding of the
  investment companies.


::: 228-c:purposes_powers_and_operation.html
 
    &#167; 228-c.  Purposes,  powers  and operation. 1. (a) The purposes of the
  NYSBIC shall be to serve the needs of the small  business  community  in
  the  state  of  New  York.  The  NYSBIC shall direct its efforts towards
  providing small business with start-up, venture,  operating  or  working
  capital,  particularly where general economic and historical conditions,
  such  as  recent  employment  displacement  caused   by   international,
  national,   state,  regional,  and  local  economic  developments,  have
  prevented traditional capital sources  from  extending  credit  to  such
  small businesses.
    (b)  The  purposes  of  the  NYSSBIC  shall be to provide financing to
  facilitate small business ownership by minorities and persons who reside
  in  highly  distressed  areas  as  defined  in   section   two   hundred
  twenty-eight-b of this article, neighborhood based alliance communities,
  and  persons  eligible  for the earned income tax credit under an act to
  amend the internal revenue code of 1954, Pub.  L.  94-12,  89  Stat.  30
  (1975),  as  amended,  and the regulations promulgated thereunder, whose
  participation in the free enterprise system is hampered by an  inability
  to  compete effectively for capital in the marketplace due to prevailing
  or  past  restrictive  practices   provided,   however,   in   approving
  applications  for  assistance,  priority  shall  be  given to minorities
  residing in neighborhood based alliance communities,  designated  empire
  zones  or  highly distressed areas. The NYSSBIC shall direct its efforts
  toward providing these businesses with start-up, venture,  operating  or
  working  capital. The NYSSBIC will adopt an investment policy consistent
  with the policy set forth in Section 301(d).
    (c) The NYSBIC and the NYSSBIC shall function as licensees and perform
  the  respective  functions  set  forth  in  Title  III  and   applicable
  regulations.
    2. In furtherance of the purposes set forth in subdivision one of this
  section,  and  in addition to the powers conferred on stock corporations
  by the business corporation law,  the  NYSBIC  and  the  NYSSBIC  shall,
  subject  to  the  restrictions and limitations contained in this article
  and without limiting any power  otherwise  conferred  herein,  have  the
  following powers:
    (a)  To  lend  money  and conduct other financing transactions at such
  rate or rates as may be  available  to  banking  organizations  licensed
  under this chapter; and
    (b) To enter such business and financing transactions and arrangements
  at such rates and under such terms and conditions as may be permitted to
  licensees under Sections 301(c), 301(d) and applicable regulations.


::: 228-d:new_york_small_business_investment_company_board_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 228-d.   New  York  small  business  investment  company;  board  of
  directors. 1. The corporate  powers  of  the  New  York  small  business
  investment  companies  shall be exercised by a board of directors, which
  shall consist of thirty persons, all of  whom  shall  be  of  full  age,
  citizens  of  the  United  States,  and  residents of this state. Of the
  thirty members of the board of directors, twenty shall  be  selected  by
  the  voting  shareholders and ten shall be selected by the governor, two
  upon the recommendation of the president pro tem of the New  York  state
  senate,  one upon recommendation of the senate minority leader, two upon
  the recommendation of the speaker of the New York state assembly and one
  upon recommendation of the assembly minority leader.
    2. The president of the investment  company  shall  be  elected  by  a
  majority of the board of directors.
    3.  Nothing  contained in this section shall prevent a director of the
  New York small business investment company from serving as a director of
  the New York specialized small business investment company  nor  prevent
  the  president  of  the  NYSBIC  from  serving  as  the president of the
  NYSSBIC.


::: 228-e:new_york_specialized_small_business_investment_company_board_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 228-e. New York specialized small business investment company; board
  of  directors. 1. The corporate powers of the New York specialized small
  business  investment  companies  shall  be  exercised  by  a  board   of
  directors,  which  shall consist of thirty persons, all of whom shall be
  of full age, citizens of the United States, and residents of this state.
  Of the thirty members  of  the  board  of  directors,  twenty  shall  be
  selected  by  the  voting  shareholders and ten shall be selected by the
  governor, two upon the recommendation of the president pro  tem  of  the
  New  York  state  senate, one upon recommendation of the senate minority
  leader, two upon the recommendation of the speaker of the New York state
  assembly and one upon recommendation of the assembly minority leader.
    2. The president of the investment  company  shall  be  elected  by  a
  majority of the board of directors.
    3.  Nothing  contained in this section shall prevent a director of the
  New York specialized small business investment company from serving as a
  director of the New York small business investment company  nor  prevent
  the  president  of  the  NYSSBIC  from  serving  as the president of the
  NYSBIC.


::: 228-f:reports.html
 
    &#167; 228-f.  Reports.  1.  The  investment companies shall make an annual
  report of their conditions to the  governor,  the  legislature  and  the
  superintendent of financial services, on or before January first of each
  year.
    2. Commencing January first, nineteen hundred ninety-five, such annual
  report shall contain but not be limited to the following:
    (a)  information  on  the cost and source of funds and capital and the
  total allowable amount available from the voting shareholders,  and  the
  maximum amount committed by each individual voting shareholder;
    (b)  classification  of  the  businesses  in the investment companies'
  portfolio by standard industrial code;
    (c) information on the types of financing provided by  the  investment
  companies,  including  start-up,  venture,  operating or working capital
  loans, the size and term of loans, and a  breakdown  of  investments  by
  senior debt, subordinated debt and equity financing;
    (d)  information  on interest rates of loans, including the percentage
  of fixed and variable rate loans;
    (e) information on how the NYSBIC is fulfilling its mission to provide
  small businesses with  credit  assistance,  particularly  where  general
  economic  and  historical  conditions have prevented traditional capital
  sources from extending credit to such small business;
    (f) information on how  the  NYSSBIC  is  fulfilling  its  mission  to
  provide  credit  assistance  to  facilitate  small business ownership by
  minorities,  persons  who  reside  in   highly   distressed   area   and
  neighborhood  based  alliance  communities  and persons eligible for the
  earned income credit as provided by paragraph (b) of subdivision one  of
  section two hundred twenty-eight-c of this article;
    (g)  information  on  resources  and  actions  taken  to  advance  the
  investment companies' marketing programs, including  their  coordination
  and  efforts  to  solicit  the  assistance  of  local  bankers and local
  economic development corporations,  the  state  department  of  economic
  development,  the  job  development  authority,  the  urban  development
  corporation, the science and technology foundation, the state university
  of New York small business development centers, the centers for advanced
  technology and other New  York  state  agencies  and  organizations  the
  investment companies deem appropriate.


::: 229:application.html
 
  &#167; 229. Application.
    1.  This  article applies to every savings bank and shall not apply to
  any other banking organization except to such extent, if any, as may  be
  specified  in  any  article  of  this  chapter  governing  such  banking
  organization; provided, however, that in the case of stock-form  savings
  banks,  this  article applies to every such organization except that the
  superintendent of financial services, consistent with the declaration of
  policy described  in  section  fourteen-e  of  this  chapter,  shall  be
  empowered to deem inapplicable to stock-form savings banks, sections two
  hundred  thirty,  two  hundred  thirty-one,  two hundred thirty-two, two
  hundred thirty-three, subdivisions one and two of  section  two  hundred
  thirty-four,  two  hundred  forty-three,  two  hundred  forty-four,  two
  hundred forty-five, two hundred forty-six, two hundred forty-six-a,  two
  hundred  forty-seven,  two  hundred forty-eight, two hundred forty-nine,
  two hundred fifty, two hundred fifty-one and two  hundred  fifty-two  of
  this chapter.
    2.  The  general  corporation  law,  the stock corporation law and the
  business corporation law shall not apply to any savings bank.  If  there
  should  be  in  any other corporate law a provision which conflicts with
  any provision of this chapter,  the  provision  of  this  chapter  shall
  prevail  and the conflicting provision of such other corporate law shall
  not apply in such case.


::: 22:fingerprints.html
 
    &#167; 22.  Fingerprints.  (a)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  every applicant for  a  license,  authorization  or  registration  under
  articles  nine, nine-A, eleven-B, twelve-B, twelve-C, twelve-D, twelve-E
  and thirteen-B of this chapter and every applicant filing an application
  to acquire control of any licensee or registrant, as the  case  may  be,
  under such articles shall submit simultaneously with an application, his
  or  her fingerprints in such form and in such manner as specified by the
  division of criminal justice services, but in any event,  no  less  than
  two digit imprints. The superintendent shall submit such fingerprints to
  the  division of criminal justice services for the purpose of conducting
  a criminal history search and returning a report thereon  in  accordance
  with  the  procedures  and  requirements  established  by  the  division
  pursuant to the provisions of article thirty-five of the executive  law,
  which  shall  include the payment of the prescribed processing fees. The
  superintendent shall request that the division submit such  fingerprints
  to  the  federal  bureau  of investigation, together with the processing
  fees prescribed by such bureau, for the purpose of conducting a criminal
  history search and returning a report thereon. An applicant shall not be
  required  to  submit  his  or  her  fingerprints  as  required  by  this
  subdivision  if  such  applicant (i) is already subject to regulation by
  the department and the applicant has submitted such fingerprints to  the
  department,  such  fingerprints  have  been submitted to the division of
  criminal justice services for  the  purpose  of  conducting  a  criminal
  history  search,  and  a  report of such search has been received by the
  department from such division; or (ii) is subject  to  regulation  by  a
  federal  bank  regulatory  agency and has submitted such fingerprints to
  such agency which has had a criminal history search  conducted  of  such
  individual   and  has  shared  such  information  or  its  determination
  resulting from such search with the department; or (iii) is  an  officer
  or  stockholder  of  a  corporation  whose  common or preferred stock is
  registered on a national securities exchange, as provided in an  act  of
  congress  of  the United States entitled the "Securities Exchange Act of
  1934", approved June sixth, nineteen hundred thirty-four, as amended, or
  such other exchange or market system as the superintendent shall approve
  by regulation, and has submitted such fingerprints to such  exchange  or
  market  system which has had a criminal history search conducted of such
  individual  and  has  shared  such  information  or  its   determination
  resulting  from such search with the department; provided, however, that
  the superintendent may subsequently require such applicant to submit his
  or her fingerprints if the superintendent has  a  reasonable  basis  for
  updating  the  information or determination resulting from the report of
  the criminal history search conducted at the  request  of  such  federal
  banking agency, exchange or market system.
    (b) The superintendent shall also, concurrent with an investigation of
  a  licensee  or registrant, or an authorized individual, pertaining to a
  violation of this chapter, submit such fingerprints to the  division  of
  criminal  justice  services  for  the  purpose  of conducting a criminal
  history search and returning a report thereon and through  the  division
  to  the federal bureau of investigation for the purpose of a fingerprint
  check of such licensee, registrant or authorized individual.
    (c) For purposes of this section, "applicant" shall include a  natural
  person  or  such principal, officer, director, trustee or stockholder of
  any  other  entity  as  may  be  designated   by   the   superintendent.
  Notwithstanding  any other provision of this article, the superintendent
  shall not access criminal history data or information, unless any agency
  from which the superintendent receives directly criminal history data or
  information has entered into a use and dissemination agreement with  the
  superintendent consistent with the provisions of this section.


::: 230:incorporation_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 230. Incorporation; organization certificate. When authorized by the
  superintendent as provided in article two of this chapter, not less than
  nine  nor  more than twenty persons may incorporate a savings bank. They
  shall  subscribe  and  acknowledge  an   organization   certificate   in
  duplicate, which shall specifically state:
    1. The name by which the corporation is to be known.
    2. The place where its principal office is to be located.
    3. Its duration if other than perpetual.
    4.  The  name,  occupation,  citizenship,  residence  and  post-office
  address of each incorporator.
    5. The amount which each incorporator will contribute in cash  to  the
  surplus fund.
    6.  The  names  of  the  incorporators who are to constitute its first
  board of trustees. Such persons as individuals and as a  group  must  be
  free of the disqualifications specified in section two hundred forty-six
  of this article.


::: 232:organization_certificate_to_be_submitted_to_superintendent_proof_of_publication_and_service_of_notice_of_intention.html
 
    &#167; 232.  Organization  certificate  to  be submitted to superintendent;
  proof of publication and service of notice of intention. After the lapse
  of at least twenty-eight days from the date of the first due publication
  of the notice of intention to organize and within  ten  days  after  the
  date  of  the  last  publication  thereof, the organization certificate,
  executed in  duplicate,  shall  be  submitted  for  examination  to  the
  superintendent  with  affidavits  showing due publication and service of
  the notice of intention to organize.


::: 233:when_corporate_existence_begins_conditions_precedent_to_commencing_business.html
 
    &#167; 233.  When  corporate  existence  begins;  conditions  precedent  to
  commencing business. When the superintendent  shall  have  approved  the
  organization  certificate,  as  provided in article two of this chapter,
  the corporate existence of the savings bank  shall  begin,  and  it  may
  exercise all the powers necessary to the completion of its organization.
  Such savings bank shall transact no other business until:
    1.  The  incorporators  shall  have  deposited  to  the credit of such
  savings bank in cash as an initial surplus fund at  least  ten  thousand
  dollars, and, if the superintendent shall so require, shall have entered
  into  an agreement or undertaking with the superintendent as trustee for
  the depositors of the savings bank, to make such  further  contributions
  in  cash  to  the surplus fund as, in the opinion of the superintendent,
  may be necessary to maintain the  savings  bank  in  safe  condition  to
  continue business, and shall have filed with the superintendent a surety
  bond  of  a corporation authorized to transact the business of insurance
  in this state, securing such agreement  or  undertaking  in  the  amount
  required by the superintendent.
    2.  It  shall  have informed the superintendent of the name, residence
  and post-office address of each officer of the corporation.
    3. The superintendent shall have duly issued to it  the  authorization
  certificate specified in article two of this chapter.


::: 234-a:settlement_modification_or_readjustment_of_investment.html
 
    &#167; 234-a.  Settlement,  modification  or readjustment of investment.  A
  savings bank may consent to any settlement, modification or readjustment
  of any investment in securities legally made by such savings  bank,  and
  may  accept and hold stocks, bonds, notes, securities or other property,
  real or personal, offered in full or partial settlement, modification or
  readjustment of any such investment.   The superintendent  may,  in  his
  discretion,  require  any  savings  bank  to  dispose  of any investment
  acquired by it pursuant to this section.


::: 234-b:trust_powers.html
 
    &#167; 234-b.  Trust powers. 1. The superintendent of financial services is
  authorized and empowered to  grant  permission  to  a  savings  bank  to
  exercise any or all of the powers specified in sections one hundred, one
  hundred-a,  one  hundred-b and one hundred-c of this chapter. In passing
  upon applications for  permission  to  exercise  any  such  powers,  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  may take into consideration the
  amount of surplus of the applying savings  bank,  whether  or  not  such
  surplus  is sufficient under the circumstances of the case, the needs of
  the community to be served and any other facts  and  circumstances  that
  seem to it proper, and may grant or refuse it permission accordingly.
    2. Whenever the laws of this state require a trust company acting in a
  fiduciary  capacity to deposit securities with the state authorities for
  the protection of private or court trusts, a savings bank, so acting, is
  empowered to make similar deposits of securities.
    4.  The  superintendent  of  financial  services  is   authorized   to
  promulgate  such  regulations  as  it  may  deem  necessary or proper to
  implement the provisions of this section and the proper exercise of  the
  powers granted by this section.


::: 234:general_powers.html
 
    &#167; 234.  General  powers. Every savings bank shall have, subject to the
  restrictions and limitations contained in this  chapter,  the  following
  powers:
    1.  To  receive  and repay deposits, including demand deposits; invest
  its funds; pay interest on deposits; and exercise  all  such  incidental
  powers  as shall be necessary to conduct the business of a savings bank,
  including, subject to regulation  by  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services,  the  power to charge for maintaining a demand deposit account
  or for honoring checks drawn on or accepting deposits made  to  such  an
  account.
    1-a.   Subject   to   such   regulations   and   restrictions  as  the
  superintendent of financial services finds to be necessary  and  proper,
  to  contract to receive time deposits, including deposits upon which the
  savings bank contracts to pay interest at a fixed rate.
    2. To issue transferable certificates showing the amounts  contributed
  to   the  surplus  fund  by  any  incorporator  or  trustee.  Each  such
  certificate shall contain a statement that the amount represented by  it
  does not constitute a liability of such savings bank, except as provided
  in this article.
    3. To acquire, hold, lease and convey real property.
    4.  To improve real property acquired by it when such improvements are
  necessary to protect the interest of the savings  bank  therein  and  to
  facilitate the sale thereof.
    5.  To  borrow  money  for  the  purpose of repaying depositors and to
  pledge or hypothecate its assets as collateral for any such loans.
    5-a.  Subject  to   such   regulations   and   restrictions   as   the
  superintendent  of  financial services finds to be necessary and proper,
  to borrow money for purposes other than that of repaying depositors  and
  to pledge or hypothecate its assets as collateral for any such loans.
    5-b.   Subject   to   such   regulations   and   restrictions  as  the
  superintendent of financial services finds to be  necessary  and  proper
  and  notwithstanding any other provisions of law, to issue notes, bonds,
  debentures, or other obligations or  other  securities  subordinated  to
  deposits  in such savings bank; provided that, unless the superintendent
  has given prior  approval  otherwise,  the  aggregate  principal  amount
  thereof at the time of issuance shall not exceed twenty-five per cent of
  the  net worth of such savings bank, exclusive of all such notes, bonds,
  debentures, or other obligations or other securities.  The  proceeds  or
  other consideration derived by a savings bank from the issuance pursuant
  to  this  subdivision  of  any  such  notes, bonds, debentures, or other
  obligations or other securities shall be deemed  for  purposes  of  this
  chapter to constitute a part of the net worth of such savings bank.
    5-c. To accept moneys deposited by the comptroller or the commissioner
  of  taxation  and finance as linked deposits pursuant to article fifteen
  of the state finance law and to enter into agreements, pledge assets  or
  furnish  other  security,  including, but not limited to, an irrevocable
  letter of credit issued by a federal home  loan  bank,  satisfactory  in
  form  and amount to such authorized depositor, for the repayment of such
  moneys.
    5-d. To accept moneys deposited by the comptroller or the commissioner
  of taxation and finance in a branch located  in  a  banking  development
  district  established  pursuant  to section ninety-six-d of this chapter
  and to enter into agreements, pledge assets or furnish  other  security,
  including,  but not limited to an irrevocable letter of credit issued by
  a federal home loan bank,  satisfactory  in  form  and  amount  to  such
  authorized depositor, for the repayment of such moneys.
    5-e.  To  accept  moneys deposited by the New York state environmental
  facilities corporation as linked deposits pursuant to article sixteen of
  the state finance law and to enter into  agreements,  pledge  assets  or
  furnish  other security, satisfactory in form and amount to the New York
  state environmental facilities corporation, for the  repayment  of  such
  moneys.
    6. To collect promissory notes or bills of exchange.
    7. To receive as depositary, or as bailee for safekeeping, obligations
  of the United States government.
    8. To receive money for transmission and to transmit the same.
    9.  To  engage  in  the  safe deposit business by renting safe deposit
  boxes in which to keep personal property and papers of any kind.
    10. To act as agent in the sale of travelers' checks.
    11. To assume  and  discharge  such  obligations  to  Federal  Deposit
  Insurance Corporation as may be necessary or required for the purpose of
  maintaining deposit insurance in such corporation.
    12.  To  become  a  member  of  a federal reserve bank and to have and
  exercise all powers, not in conflict with the laws of this state,  which
  are  conferred  upon  any  such  member by the federal reserve act. Such
  savings bank and its trustees and officers shall continue to be subject,
  however, to all liabilities and duties imposed upon them by any  law  of
  this state and to all the provisions of this chapter relating to savings
  banks.
    13.  To become a member of a federal home loan bank and to have and to
  exercise all powers, not in conflict with the laws of this state,  which
  are  conferred  upon  any such member by the federal home loan bank act.
  Such savings bank and its trustees and officers  shall  continue  to  be
  subject, however, to all liabilities and duties imposed upon them by any
  law  of  this  state  and  to all provisions of this chapter relating to
  savings banks.
    15. To perform services for the Federal National Mortgage  Association
  created under the housing act of nineteen hundred fifty-four, as amended
  from  time  to time, and to sell or assign mortgages to such association
  and in connection  therewith  to  make  capital  contributions  thereto,
  purchase  stock  thereof,  and do any and all other acts which under the
  laws and regulations applicable to such sales may be required to  enable
  such sales to be effected.
    16.  To  service mortgages for others, and to render investment advice
  incidental to the purchase of and investment  in  mortgages  by  others,
  provided,  however,  that the superintendent of financial services shall
  have power to prescribe, by specific or general regulation,  the  extent
  to  which  and  the conditions upon which such mortgages may be serviced
  and such investment advice may be rendered.
    17. To sue and to be sued in all courts and to participate in  actions
  and  proceedings,  whether  judicial,  arbitrative or otherwise, in like
  cases as natural persons.
    18. To have a corporate seal, and to alter such seal at pleasure,  and
  to  use  it  by  causing it or a facsimile to be affixed or impressed or
  reproduced in any other manner.
    19. To make donations, irrespective  of  corporate  benefit,  for  the
  public welfare or for community fund, hospital, charitable, educational,
  scientific,  civic  or  similar  purposes,  and  in time of war or other
  national emergency in aid thereof.
    20. To elect or appoint officers, employees, and other agents  of  the
  savings bank, define their duties, fix their compensation, and to indem-
  nify corporate personnel.
    21.  To  execute  and  deliver such guaranties as may be incidental or
  usual in the transfer of investment securities.
    22. To have perpetual existence.
    23. To have and exercise all other powers necessary or appropriate  in
  conducting the business of the savings bank.
    24.  Subject  to  such  regulations as the superintendent of financial
  services finds to be necessary and proper, and notwithstanding any other
  provision of law, to accept federal tax and loan accounts, the  balances
  of  which  are  payable  on  demand  without previous notice of intended
  withdrawal and to pledge collateral to secure such accounts.
    25. Subject to any limitations or other specific provisions  contained
  in  this  chapter or any other statute of this state or its organization
  certificate, and as shall be appropriate in conducting the  business  of
  the  corporation,  and  only for such activities which are authorized by
  this chapter for savings banks:  to  be  a  promoter,  partner,  member,
  associate  or  manager  of other business enterprises or ventures, or to
  the extent permitted in any other jurisdiction to be an incorporator  of
  other corporations of any type or kind.


::: 235-b:effect_of_usury.html
 
    &#167; 235-b.  Effect of usury. The knowingly taking, receiving, reserving,
  or charging by a savings bank of interest at a rate greater than six per
  centum per annum, as computed pursuant to this section, or in excess  of
  such greater rate of interest as may be authorized by law, shall be held
  and adjudged a forfeiture of the entire interest which the note or other
  evidence  of  debt  carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid
  thereon. If such greater rate of interest  has  been  paid,  the  person
  paying  the  same  or  his  legal  representatives  may recover from the
  savings bank twice the entire amount of the interest thus paid.  Nothing
  in this section shall be deemed to affect the powers of any savings bank
  with respect to loans or investments it is authorized to make.
    * &#167; 235-b.   Effect   of   usury.  The  knowingly  taking,  receiving,
  reserving, or charging by a savings bank of interest at a  rate  greater
  than such rate of interest as may be authorized by law shall be held and
  adjudged  a  forfeiture  of  the entire interest which the note or other
  evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed  to  be  paid
  thereon.  If  such  greater  rate  of interest has been paid, the person
  paying the same or  his  legal  representatives  may  recover  from  the
  savings  bank  twice  the  entire  amount  of the interest thus paid, if
  action therefor is brought within two years from the time the excess  of
  interest is taken. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the
  powers  of  any  savings bank with respect to loans or investments it is
  authorized to make.
    * NB Effectiveness of amendments made by chapter 349/1989  &#167;7  expired
  September 1, 1971 per &#167;13 of such chapter


::: 235-c:regulation_of_certain_charges.html
 
    &#167; 235-c.   Regulation   of  certain  charges.  The  superintendent  of
  financial services shall have the power to prescribe by  regulation  (i)
  the  maximum charge which may be imposed in this state by a savings bank
  in connection with a check or other  written  order  drawn  upon  it  on
  insufficient  funds,  irrespective  of  whether  the instrument is paid,
  accepted or returned by the bank, and (ii) the maximum charge which  may
  be imposed in this state by a savings bank in connection with a check or
  other  written  order  received  by  it  for  deposit  or collection and
  subsequently dishonored and returned for any reason by the drawee.


::: 235-d:service_corporations_owned_by_savings_banks_authorized_activities_of_such_corporations_investment_therein.html
 
    &#167; 235-d.  Service  corporations  owned  by  savings  banks; authorized
  activities of such corporations; investment therein. 1. A  savings  bank
  may  invest  in  the  stock, capital notes and debentures of one or more
  service corporations organized under the laws of this state for the sole
  activities set forth in subdivision two of this section, to  the  extent
  and  upon  such  conditions  as  are  or  have  been  authorized  by the
  superintendent of financial services, provided that all of the stock  of
  such  service corporations is, or is to be, owned by one or more savings
  banks;  and  provided  further,  that  no  savings  bank  may  make  any
  investment  under  this  section if its aggregate outstanding investment
  thereby, determined as prescribed by  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services, would thereupon exceed three per centum of its assets.
    2.  The activities of such service corporations, performed directly or
  through  one  or  more  wholly  owned  subsidiaries,  shall  consist  of
  rendering such services to savings banks and making such investments for
  itself  and for savings banks as are authorized services and investments
  for such savings banks under the provisions of this chapter, as well  as
  such  activities  as  may  be  prescribed  by  general regulation of the
  superintendent of financial services.


::: 235:investment_of_funds.html
 
    &#167; 235. Investment of funds. A savings bank may invest in the following
  property and securities and no others:
    1.  Obligations  of the United States, or those for which the faith of
  the United States is pledged to provide for the payment of the  interest
  and  principal,  or  those  for  which  annual  contributions to be paid
  pursuant to contract by the United  States  government  or  any  of  its
  instrumentalities  in  accordance  with  an act of congress entitled the
  "Housing Act of 1949", are pledged as security for the  payment  of  the
  interest and principal.
    2.  Obligations of this state, issued pursuant to the authority of any
  law of the state, or those for which the faith of this state is  pledged
  to provide for the payment of the interest and principal.
    3.  Obligations  of any state of the United States, or those for which
  the faith of any state of the United States is pledged  to  provide  for
  the  payment  of  the  interest  and  principal,  upon which there is no
  default and upon which there has been no default for  more  than  ninety
  days;   provided,  that  within  ten  years  immediately  preceding  the
  investment such state has not been in default for more than ninety  days
  in  the  payment  of  any part of principal or interest of any debt duly
  authorized by the legislature of such state to  be  contracted  by  such
  state  after  the  first day of January, eighteen hundred seventy-eight,
  except debts representing a refunding or adjustment of any  indebtedness
  originally contracted or in existence at that date or prior thereto.
    4.  Obligations  of  or those for which the faith of any city, county,
  town, village, school district, poor  district,  water  district,  sewer
  district  or  fire  district in this state is pledged to provide for the
  payment of principal  and  interest,  provided  that  they  were  issued
  pursuant  to  law  and  the  faith  and  credit of the issuing municipal
  corporation  or  district  is  pledged  for  their  payment,  bonds  and
  debentures or other obligations of any public authority or commission or
  similar  body created or approved by the state of New York having assets
  of not less than fifty million dollars; and bonds and debentures of  any
  other  public  authority,  commission  or  similar body which is legally
  obligated to establish rates which while any debt  is  outstanding  will
  provide  sufficient  revenues for the cost of operation, maintenance and
  debt service, such debt service to include interest on  all  outstanding
  obligations and serial maturities and sinking funds, provided such other
  authority,  commission  or similar body shall issue financial statements
  at least annually which shall be available to the public, shall have had
  receipts  from  operations  during  each  of  the  five   fiscal   years
  immediately  preceding  date  of  investment  sufficient  after  meeting
  operation and maintenance expenses to cover debt service,  and  provided
  further that the revenues available for debt service received during the
  fiscal  year  immediately  preceding  investment  or  the average amount
  available  for  debt  service  for  the  three  fiscal  years  preceding
  investment  shall  have  been  adequate  to meet the maximum annual debt
  service of the bonds outstanding, and said obligations have not been  in
  default  as  to  principal  or  interest; and bonds, debentures or other
  obligations of any  public  authority  or  commission  or  similar  body
  created  by  the  state  of  New  York, the average of receipts from the
  operations of which, during the three years  immediately  preceding  the
  date  of  investment,  after meeting operation and maintenance expenses,
  were not less than one hundred  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  maximum
  annual  debt service on the bonds outstanding and which obligations have
  not been in default as to principal or interest.
    5. (a) Obligations, excluding however, non-negotiable warrants, of any
  city or of any school district coterminous with or which  includes  such
  city,  or  of  any  county  situated  in one of the states of the United
  States which adjoins the state of New York, provided said city or county
  has a population, as shown by the last  federal  census  next  preceding
  such investment, of not less than ten thousand inhabitants, and has not,
  within  twenty-five  years preceding said investment, defaulted for more
  than one hundred and twenty days in the payment of any  part  either  of
  principal   or  interest  of  any  bond,  note,  or  other  evidence  of
  indebtedness. The term "city" in this paragraph shall include any  city,
  town,  borough, village, township or other incorporated municipality. An
  investment made before  August  first,  nineteen  hundred  twenty-eight,
  shall  not  under  the population provision of this paragraph, as to the
  then owner thereof, cease to be an authorized investment for the  moneys
  of savings banks.
    (b)  Obligations,  excluding  however, non-negotiable warrants, of any
  city or of any school district  or  county  coterminous  with  or  which
  includes  such  city,  situated in any other of the states of the United
  States the obligations of which state are an authorized  investment  for
  the  moneys  of  savings  banks, provided said city has a population, as
  shown by the last federal census next preceding said investment, of  not
  less than thirty thousand inhabitants, and was incorporated as a city at
  least  twenty-five years prior to the making of said investment, and has
  not, within twenty-five years preceding said investment,  defaulted  for
  more  than one hundred and twenty days in the payment of any part either
  of principal or interest  of  any  bond,  note,  or  other  evidence  of
  indebtedness. Provided further, that obligations issued by a city having
  a  population  of  less than forty-five thousand inhabitants as shown by
  said census or by a school district or county shall not be an authorized
  investment for the moneys of  savings  banks  unless  the  city,  school
  district  or county has power to levy taxes on the taxable real property
  therein for the payment of such obligations without limitation  of  rate
  or amount.
    (c)  If  at  any  time  the  indebtedness  of  any  city  described in
  paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  this  subdivision  or  in  paragraph  (c)  of
  subdivision  twenty-five of this section, together with the indebtedness
  of any district, municipal corporation or subdivision, except a  county,
  which  is wholly within the boundaries of such city, and together with a
  proportionate part  of  the  indebtedness  of  any  district,  municipal
  corporation  or subdivision, except a county, which is partly within the
  boundaries of such city, and together with so much of  the  indebtedness
  of  any  county  wholly  within  the  boundaries  of  such  city  and  a
  proportionate part of so much of the indebtedness of any  county  partly
  within  the  boundaries  of such city, as shall be in excess of five per
  centum of the valuation  for  the  purposes  of  taxation  of  the  real
  property  in  any  such  county,  shall  exceed twelve per centum of the
  valuation of real property in said city for the  purposes  of  taxation,
  the  obligations of such city or of any school district or of any county
  coterminous with or which includes such  city,  shall,  thereafter,  and
  until  such  indebtedness  shall  be reduced to twelve per centum of the
  valuation of real property in said city for the  purposes  of  taxation,
  cease to be an authorized investment for the moneys of savings banks. If
  there  is  no county wholly or in part within such city or if the county
  wholly or in part within such city  has  neither  any  indebtedness  nor
  power  to  incur  indebtedness,  the  obligations of such city or of any
  school district coterminous with or which includes such city, shall  not
  cease  to  be  an  authorized  investment unless such indebtedness shall
  exceed the percentage  above  provided  plus  an  additional  three  per
  centum.  If  at  any  time  the  indebtedness of any county described in
  paragraphs (a) or (b) shall exceed five per centum of the  valuation  of
  real  property  for  the  purposes  of taxation, the obligations of such
  county shall thereafter, and until such indebtedness shall be reduced to
  five per centum of the valuation of real property for  the  purposes  of
  taxation, cease to be an authorized investment for the moneys of savings
  banks.  A proportionate part of any indebtedness for the purpose of this
  paragraph shall be, unless otherwise apportioned by law, that proportion
  which the valuation of taxable real  property  of  a  county,  district,
  municipal  corporation  or  subdivision  within the boundaries of a city
  bears to the total valuation  of  all  taxable  real  property  of  said
  county,   district,   municipal  corporation  or  subdivision.  Contract
  liability shall be excluded unless represented by stocks, bonds,  notes,
  certificates  of  indebtedness  or other like instruments and water debt
  shall be excluded and sinking funds applicable  to  debts  not  excluded
  shall  be  deducted,  in  determining  the  amount  of  any indebtedness
  hereunder.
    (d) The provisions of paragraph (c) shall not apply to the obligations
  of any city which has taxable real property with  a  valuation  for  the
  purposes  of taxation in excess of two hundred million dollars and which
  has a population as shown by the last decennial federal  census  of  not
  less  than one hundred fifty thousand inhabitants and shall not apply to
  the obligations of any school district or  county  coterminous  with  or
  which  includes  such  city, provided that the city, school district, or
  county, as the case may be, has power to levy taxes on the taxable  real
  property  therein for the payment of such obligations without limitation
  of rate or amount.
    (e) The valuation of property for  purposes  of  taxation  under  this
  subdivision  and  under subdivision twenty-five of this section shall be
  an official valuation duly made and recorded  and  in  cases  where  the
  assessed  valuation is based on a percentage of such official valuation,
  the percentage used  shall  have  been  authorized  under  statutory  or
  charter power prior to the determination of such assessed valuation.
    (f) No obligations issued after the year nineteen hundred thirty-eight
  by  any city, county, school district or other municipality of any state
  other than New York shall be an authorized investment for savings  banks
  unless  such  city,  county, school district or other municipality shall
  have power to levy taxes on the taxable real property  therein  for  the
  payment of such obligation without limitation of rate or amount.
    (g)  Obligations  issued by a city, village, town, county, department,
  agency, district, authority, commission or other  public  body  in  this
  state  or  any  other  state  of  the  United  States payable out of the
  revenues of a public utility system providing water, electricity, gas or
  sewerage service, provided that if the public utility system is  located
  outside the state, it must serve an area having a population of not less
  than one hundred thousand. Said city, village, town, county, department,
  agency,  district,  authority,  commission or other public body shall be
  legally obligated by statute, charter, indenture  or  covenant  to  fix,
  maintain  and collect charges or taxes, or both, to provide net revenues
  after operation and maintenance of the facilities used to  provide  such
  service sufficient to meet maturing interest, principal and sinking fund
  payments  on  such  obligations  or  shall  be  empowered to require the
  fixing, maintaining, and collecting of such charges or taxes,  or  both,
  by duly authorized public officers or bodies, and shall be restrained by
  statute,  charter,  indenture  or  covenant from disposing of all or any
  substantial portion of such facilities unless provision is  made  for  a
  continuance  of the interest, principal and sinking fund payments due on
  such obligations, or for the retirement of  such  obligations,  provided
  said   city,   village,  town,  county,  department,  agency,  district,
  authority, commission or other public body shall have had  net  earnings
  during   each   of  the  five  years  immediately  preceding  investment
  sufficient to cover all debt service and further provided that  the  net
  earnings  available  for debt service for the year immediately preceding
  investment shall have been sufficient to meet the  maximum  annual  debt
  service  of  the obligations outstanding, and said obligations shall not
  have been in default as to principal or interest.
    5-a. Bonds and mortgages and notes and mortgages  on  unimproved  real
  property   in  this  state  or  outside  this  state,  subject  to  such
  limitations as the superintendent of financial services may prescribe.
    6. Bonds and mortgages  and  notes  and  mortgages  on  improved  real
  property,  including  leasehold  estates, in this state, and, subject to
  such limitations and  conditions  as  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  prescribe  by  general  regulation, in any other location
  outside this  state.  The  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  not
  constitute  the  authority  to  make a loan to a natural person upon the
  security of a mortgage which is not a first lien.
    (c) For the purposes of this  subdivision  real  property  upon  which
  there  is  a  building  in process of construction, which when completed
  will constitute a permanent  improvement  with  a  value  of  more  than
  twenty-five  per  centum  of  the  value  of such real property shall be
  considered  improved  real  property,  as  shall  real   property   with
  improvements  thereon that are capable of producing income sufficient to
  pay all costs of operation and maintenance of such  real  property,  all
  taxes  thereon and to effect full repayment of principal and interest in
  accordance with the terms of the mortgage loan to be  made  pursuant  to
  this subdivision.
    (e)  Except  as  hereinafter  provided  no  investment in any bond and
  mortgage or any note and mortgage shall be  made  by  any  savings  bank
  except upon the written and signed certificate of an appraiser appointed
  pursuant  to  policies established by the board of trustees stating that
  in such appraiser's judgment  it  affords  adequate  security  for  such
  investment.  Such  certificate  shall  be  filed and preserved among the
  records of the savings bank.
    (f) For the purpose of protecting its interests  a  savings  bank  may
  release any obligation to pay, or guarantee of the payment of, principal
  or  interest,  or  otherwise  waive  or  modify  any  of  the  terms and
  conditions of any bond and mortgage, and of any note and  mortgage,  and
  may  extend or reextend any bond and mortgage and any note and mortgage,
  and may also accept a sum less than the principal amount thereof in full
  payment and satisfaction of the same.
    A savings bank may also waive its right to enforce payment of any bond
  or note secured by a mortgage on real property and may waive  its  right
  to  obtain  a  deficiency  judgment against the borrower in the event of
  foreclosure of such mortgage.
    (g) Every mortgage and every assignment of a mortgage taken or held by
  a savings bank shall immediately be recorded or registered in the office
  of the proper recording officer of the county in which the real property
  described in the mortgage is located. This paragraph shall not apply  to
  a  participating interest in any mortgage which shall have been acquired
  by a savings bank  under  the  provisions  of  subdivision  fourteen  of
  section  two hundred thirty-four, paragraph (h) of this subdivision, and
  subdivision eighteen of section two hundred thirty-five.
    (h) A savings bank may, subject to such regulations  and  restrictions
  as  the  superintendent  of financial services finds to be necessary and
  proper, participate and invest in  (1)  loans  of  a  type  that  it  is
  authorized  to  invest in pursuant to subparagraph (a) of paragraph four
  of subdivision eight of section two hundred thirty-five of this  chapter
  and  (2)  in  any bond and mortgage or note and mortgage on improved and
  unencumbered real property including leasehold estates, in which  it  is
  individually  authorized to invest, which said mortgage is duly recorded
  or registered in the office of  the  proper  recording  officer  of  the
  county  in which the real property described in the mortgage is located,
  provided  that no such investment shall be made by a savings bank in any
  part interest in such mortgage which is junior  or  subordinate  to  any
  other part interest nor if the aggregate amount of all part interests in
  such  mortgage  when  added  together  will exceed any percentage of the
  appraised value of such real  property  by  which  the  authority  of  a
  savings  bank  to  invest  individually  in  such  mortgage  is limited.
  Investments made by any savings bank in mortgage loans pursuant to  this
  subdivision  and  pursuant  to  subdivision twenty-eight of this section
  shall be  included  in  the  computation  of  permissive  investment  in
  mortgage  loans  pursuant  to  paragraph  (d) of subdivision six of this
  section.
    (i) A mortgage loan upon a leasehold estate shall not be  made  unless
  such  leasehold  estate  shall  have  an unexpired term of not less than
  twenty-one years, which term may include the term provided by an  option
  of  renewal enforceable at the exclusive discretion of the savings bank.
  No mortgage loan upon a leasehold estate shall be made or acquired by  a
  savings  bank  unless the terms thereof shall provide, regardless of the
  period of the loan, for payments to be  made  by  the  borrower  on  the
  principal  thereof  at least once in each year in amounts which would be
  sufficient to completely amortize  a  loan  whose  period  extended  for
  four-fifths  of  the unexpired term of the lease, which term may include
  the term provided by an option of renewal enforceable at  the  exclusive
  discretion  of the savings bank; or, in the case of a mortgage loan upon
  a leasehold estate in real property upon which there is  a  building  in
  process of construction, such payments of principal need not be required
  during  the  period  of  construction  or  the  first three years of the
  mortgage, whichever is shorter. The provisions of paragraphs  (c),  (d),
  (e),  (f), (g), and (h) of this subdivision shall be applicable to loans
  made upon leasehold estates.
    6-a. A savings bank may, in addition to the  authority  granted  under
  any  other subdivisions of this section, make a loan to a natural person
  upon the security of a mortgage which is not a first lien at the rate or
  rates agreed to by the savings bank and the borrower,  subject  to  such
  regulations  as  the superintendent of financial services may prescribe.
  Such regulations by the superintendent of financial services may include
  such restrictions as the  superintendent  of  financial  services  finds
  necessary  or  proper, including without limitation, a restriction as to
  the percentage of total assets which may be invested in such loans or  a
  restriction  on  the  loan  to appraisal value of property securing such
  loan.
    For purposes of this subdivision, the term mortgage  shall  include  a
  lien on an existing ownership interest in certificates of stock or other
  evidence  of  an  ownership interest in, and a proprietary lease from, a
  corporation or partnership formed for the  purpose  of  the  cooperative
  ownership of real estate.
    7.   Railroad   obligations  as  provided  in  this  subdivision.  (1)
  Obligations issued, assumed or guaranteed as to principal  and  interest
  by endorsement, or so guaranteed which guaranty has been assumed; or
    (2) Obligations for the payment of the principal and interest of which
  a  railroad  corporation  such  as  is  described  in  this paragraph is
  obligated under the terms of a lease made or assumed; or
    (3) Equipment obligations in  respect  of  which  liability  has  been
  incurred:  by  a railroad corporation incorporated under the laws of the
  United States, or any state thereof, and owning and operating within the
  United States  not  less  than  five  hundred  miles  of  standard-gauge
  railroad line, exclusive of sidings, or if the mileage so owned shall be
  less  than  five hundred miles, the railroad operating revenues from the
  operation of all railroad operated by it, including such  revenues  from
  the  operation  of  all  railroad  controlled  through  ownership of all
  (except directors' qualifying shares) of the voting stock of the  owning
  corporation, shall have been not less than ten million dollars each year
  for  at  least  five  of  the  six  fiscal  years  next  preceding  such
  investment; provided, however, (1) that in the five  fiscal  years  next
  preceding  such  investment,  the  amount  of  income  of  such railroad
  corporation, available for its fixed charges,  as  hereinafter  defined,
  shall  have  averaged not less than two and one-half times the amount of
  fixed charges at the time of investment,  as  hereinafter  defined;  (2)
  that  at  no  time  within  such  period  of  five  years  such railroad
  corporation, unless in process of reorganization or  readjustment  since
  completed,  pursuant  to applicable law, shall have failed regularly and
  punctually to pay the matured principal and interest on its mortgage and
  funded indebtedness; and  (3)  that  the  security,  if  any,  for  such
  obligations shall be property wholly or in part within the United States
  and which obligations shall be
    (a)  fixed  interest-bearing  bonds  secured  by  direct  mortgage  on
  railroad owned or operated by such railroad corporation; or
    (b) fixed  interest-bearing  bonds  secured  by  first  mortgage  upon
  terminal,  depot  or  tunnel  property,  including  lands, buildings and
  appurtenances, used in the service of transportation by one or more such
  railroad corporations, provided that such bonds be the direct obligation
  of, or that payment of principal and interest thereof be  guaranteed  by
  endorsement  by,  or  guaranteed  by endorsement which guaranty has been
  assumed by, one or more such railroad corporations; or
    (c) equipment  obligations,  comprising  bonds,  notes,  certificates,
  conditional   sale   agreements   or  assignments  of  conditional  sale
  agreements and participations therein, issued or made in connection with
  the purchase for use on railroads of new  standard-gauge  rolling  stock
  through  the medium of an equipment agreement, and which obligations, so
  long as any thereof shall be outstanding and unpaid or  unprovided  for,
  shall be secured by an instrument (1) vesting title to such equipment in
  a  trustee  free  of  encumbrance,  or (2) creating a first lien on such
  equipment, or, pending such vesting of title, by the deposit of cash  in
  trust,  which deposit may be invested in whole or in part in obligations
  of the United States or obligations for which the faith  of  the  United
  States  is  pledged  to  provide  for  the  payment  of the interest and
  principal, or obligations of any public housing agency as defined in the
  United States housing act of nineteen hundred thirty-seven, as  amended,
  in  the  United States as are secured either (1) by an agreement between
  the public housing agency and the public housing administration in which
  the public housing agency agrees  to  borrow  from  the  public  housing
  administration,  and the public housing administration agrees to lend to
  the public housing agency, prior to the maturity  of  such  obligations,
  which  obligations  shall  have  a  maturity  of  not more than eighteen
  months, moneys in an  amount  which,  together  with  any  other  moneys
  irrevocably  committed  to  the payment of interest on such obligations,
  will suffice to pay the principal of such obligations with  interest  to
  maturity  thereon,  which  moneys  under the terms of said agreement are
  required to be used for the purpose of paying the principal of  and  the
  interest  on  such  obligations at their maturity, or (2) by a pledge of
  annual contributions under an annual contributions contract between such
  public housing agency and the  public  housing  administration  if  such
  contract shall contain the covenant by the public housing administration
  which  is  authorized by section 1421a(b) of Title 42, U.S. Code, and if
  the maximum sum and  the  maximum  period  specified  in  such  contract
  pursuant  to  section 1421a(b) of Title 42, U.S. Code, shall not be less
  than the annual amount and the period for payment which are requisite to
  provide  for the payment, when due, of all installments of principal and
  interest on such obligations, to an amount equal to the face  amount  of
  such  equipment obligations issued in respect of such equipment title to
  which is not yet so vested; provided further, that the maximum amount of
  such obligations so issuable shall not exceed eighty per centum  of  the
  cost  of such equipment; and provided further, that the owner, purchaser
  or lessee, or the owners, purchasers or lessees, of such equipment shall
  be obligated by the terms of such obligations or of such instrument  (a)
  to  maintain such equipment in proper repair; (b) to replace any thereof
  that may be destroyed or released with other equipment of  equal  value,
  or,  if  released  in  connection  with  a  sale thereof, to deposit the
  proceeds of such sale in trust for the benefit of the  holders  of  such
  obligations  pending  replacement  of such equipment; (c) to pay any and
  all taxes or other governmental charges that may be required by  law  to
  be  paid  upon  such  equipment;  (d)  to  pay,  in  accordance with the
  provisions of such obligations or of such instrument, to holders, or  to
  such  trustee for the benefit of holders, of such obligations the amount
  of interest due thereon or of the dividends payable in respect  thereof;
  and  (e)  to  pay  the amount of the entire issue of such obligations in
  such annual or semi-annual installment each year throughout a period  of
  not  exceeding fifteen years from the first date of issue of any thereof
  that the amount of the respective unmatured  installments  at  any  time
  outstanding shall be approximately equal; provided, further, that unless
  the  owner, purchaser or lessee of such equipment or one or more of such
  owners, purchasers or lessees shall be such railroad corporation  as  is
  described  in  and  meets the requirements of this subdivision preceding
  paragraph (a), such obligations shall be guaranteed by endorsement as to
  principal and as to interest or dividends by such railroad corporations;
  or
    (d) fixed interest-bearing bonds of such railroad corporation  secured
  by  irrevocable  pledge  as  collateral under a trust agreement of other
  railroad bonds that are legal investments for savings banks  under  this
  section, have a maturity not earlier than the bonds that they secure and
  of  a total face amount not less than the total face amount of the bonds
  that they secure; or
    (e) fixed interest-bearing mortgage bonds other than  those  described
  in paragraphs (a) or (b) hereof, income mortgage bonds, collateral trust
  bonds or obligations other than those described in paragraph (d) hereof,
  or  unsecured  bonds or obligations, issued, assumed or guaranteed as to
  principal and  interest  by  endorsement  by,  or  so  guaranteed  which
  guaranty  has  been assumed by, such railroad corporation, provided that
  (a) the annual fixed charges and contingent  interest  charges  of  such
  railroad  at  the time of investment shall not exceed thirty per cent of
  the average annual income available for such charges for the five fiscal
  years next preceding, and (b) the net income of such railroad after  all
  taxes  and  charges  shall  have  averaged not less than fifteen million
  dollars annually in such period.
    The amount of income available for fixed charges shall be  the  amount
  obtained  by  deducting  from  gross  income  all  items  deductible  in
  ascertaining net income other  than  federal  income  taxes,  contingent
  income  interest  and  those  constituting  fixed charges. Fixed charges
  shall be: rent for leased roads, miscellaneous rents, fixed interest  on
  funded  debt,  interest on unfunded debt and amortization of discount on
  funded debt.
    Accounting terms used in the preceding paragraph shall  be  deemed  to
  refer  to  those  used  in  the  accounting  reports  prescribed  by the
  accounting regulations for common carriers subject to the provisions  of
  the interstate commerce act. If the interstate commerce commission shall
  prescribe  accounting  regulations  wherein  shall  be  defined the term
  income available for fixed charges  and  the  term  fixed  charges,  the
  definitions  thereof as so prescribed shall be taken and used in lieu of
  the definitions set forth in the preceding paragraph of this subdivision
  for all purposes hereof, except that federal income taxes shall  not  be
  deducted, nor shall federal income tax credits be included, in computing
  income  available for fixed charges. In determining income available for
  fixed charges and fixed  charges  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  the
  immediately  preceding paragraph interest, dividends and rentals paid by
  a railroad corporation and  included  in  both  such  amounts  shall  be
  eliminated.
    For  all  purposes  of this subdivision seven, the revenues, earnings,
  income and fixed  charges  of,  and  dividends  paid  by,  any  railroad
  corporation  prior to the acquisition of all or substantially all of its
  railroad  lines  by  another  railroad  corporation,   through   merger,
  consolidation,  conveyance  or  lease, shall, while such lines remain in
  the possession of the acquiring corporation,  be  deemed  to  have  been
  revenues,  earnings, income and fixed charges of, and dividends paid by,
  such acquiring corporation.
    Whenever a railroad corporation  shall  own  (directly  or  through  a
  subsidiary  all  of  the  stock  of  which, except directors' qualifying
  shares, is owned by such corporation) at least ninety per  cent  of  the
  capital  stock  of one or more other railroad corporations, the property
  of which is operated by it under lease, the consolidated  statements  of
  all  such railroad corporations may be used in determining the amount of
  income available for fixed charges and the amount of fixed charges.
    Obligations of a railroad corporation the railroad lines of which have
  been so leased prior to April fifth, nineteen hundred  twenty-nine,  for
  the  payment  of which the lessee is not obligated, that are outstanding
  and officially listed by the department of  financial  services  of  the
  state of New York as authorized investments prior to that date, shall be
  and   remain  authorized  investments  hereunder;  provided,  that  such
  railroad lines shall be in the  possession  of  and  be  operated  by  a
  railroad  corporation such as is described in and meets the requirements
  of the provisions of this subdivision preceding paragraph (a).
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of  this  subdivision,  equipment
  obligations  described  in  paragraph  (c) which shall have been issued,
  assumed or guaranteed by any  railroad  corporation  classified  by  the
  interstate commerce commission as a class one railroad and which are not
  in default, shall be authorized investments hereunder.
    Notwithstanding  any  of  the  provisions  of  this subdivision, fixed
  interest-bearing  obligations  of   railroad   corporations,   excluding
  terminal, depot and tunnel corporations, which are eligible for purchase
  by  savings  banks  on December thirty-first, nineteen hundred fifty-two
  under the provisions of subdivisions seven or nineteen of this  section,
  or  which shall thereafter become eligible pursuant to the provisions of
  this subdivision seven, as amended, if not  in  default,  shall  be  and
  remain  eligible hereunder, provided that the income available for fixed
  charges, as herein  defined,  of  the  railroad  corporation  which  has
  issued,  assumed or guaranteed such obligations, or which operates under
  lease the railroad lines of the corporation which has issued, assumed or
  guaranteed such obligations, shall have averaged  for  the  five  fiscal
  years  next  preceding  the  time  of investment not less than twice the
  interest charges  for  the  last  such  fiscal  year  on  all  equipment
  obligations,  and other obligations eligible hereunder, of such railroad
  corporation which remain outstanding at time of investment.
    Fixed  interest-bearing  bonds of terminal, depot and tunnel companies
  which  are  eligible  for  purchase  by  savings   banks   on   December
  thirty-first,   nineteen  hundred  fifty-two  under  the  provisions  of
  subdivisions  seven  or  nineteen  of  this  section,  or  which   shall
  thereafter   become   eligible   pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this
  subdivision seven, as amended, shall be and remain  eligible  hereunder,
  provided  that  the  principal  and  interest  thereof  be guaranteed by
  endorsement by, or guaranteed by endorsement  which  guaranty  has  been
  assumed  by,  a railroad corporation which meets the requirements of the
  preceding paragraph for continuing the  eligibility  of  its  own  fixed
  interest-bearing obligations.
    Not more than twenty-five per centum of the assets of any savings bank
  shall   be  loaned  or  invested  in  the  bonds,  notes,  certificates,
  conditional sale agreements, assignments of conditional sale  agreements
  and  participations  therein  in this subdivision seven defined, and not
  more than ten per centum of such assets shall be invested in such bonds,
  notes,  certificates,  conditional  sale  agreements,   assignments   of
  conditional sale agreements and participations therein for which any one
  railroad corporation of this state shall be obligated, and not more than
  five  per  centum  of such assets shall be invested in the bonds, notes,
  certificates, conditional sale agreements,  assignments  of  conditional
  sale  agreements  and  participations therein for which any one railroad
  corporation not of this state shall be obligated.
    Street  railroad  corporations  shall  not  be   considered   railroad
  corporations within the meaning of this subdivision.
    7-a.  Any  savings  bank  which prior to April first, nineteen hundred
  thirty-eight acquired any railroad obligation eligible at  the  time  of
  acquisition  for  investment  by savings banks may continue to hold such
  obligation as though the same continue to be eligible  by  law  for  new
  investment by such savings bank.
    8.   Promissory  notes  and  other  agreements  as  provided  in  this
  subdivision.
    (1) Promissory notes payable to the order of the  savings  bank  which
  are:
    (a)  Secured  by  one  or  more  mortgages in which a savings bank may
  invest; provided the amount loaned is not in excess of ninety per centum
  of the  principal  sum  secured  by  such  mortgage  or  mortgages.  The
  assignment  of  every mortgage taken as security for any such note shall
  be recorded or registered in the office of the proper recording  officer
  of  the  county in which the real property described in such mortgage is
  located, unless such mortgage or mortgages have been so  assigned  by  a
  savings bank.
    (b) Secured by any of the stocks and bonds in which a savings bank may
  invest;  provided  that  (1)  the amount of the loan is not in excess of
  ninety per centum of the market value of such stocks and bonds; and  (2)
  the  term  "stocks," as used in this paragraph, shall be deemed to refer
  to stocks eligible for investment  by  a  savings  bank  other  than  in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  subdivision  twenty-six  of  this
  section.
    (c) Made by a savings and loan association which has been incorporated
  three years or more and has an accumulated capital  of  at  least  fifty
  thousand dollars.
    (2)  Promissory  notes  payable to the order of the savings bank which
  are secured by the assignment of a deposit in any savings bank; provided
  the amount of the loan is not in excess of the amount of such deposit.
    (3) Any loan secured  by  not  less  than  a  like  amount  of  direct
  obligations  of  the  United  States  or  of this state, or of any city,
  county, town, village or school district of this state or  of  any  such
  department,  agency  or  instrumentality  of  the  United States or this
  state.
    (4) (a) Promissory notes representing loans and advances of credit for
  the  purpose  of financing alterations, repairs and improvements upon or
  in connection with, or as the superintendent may authorize the equipping
  of existing structures, and the building of new structures, upon  urban,
  suburban,   or   rural   real   property   (including  the  restoration,
  rehabilitation, rebuilding and replacement of  such  improvements  which
  have  been  damaged  or destroyed by earthquake, conflagration, tornado,
  hurricane, cyclone, flood or other catastrophe), by the  owners  thereof
  or by lessees of such real property under a lease expiring not less than
  six  months  after  the  maturity of the loan or advance of credit or by
  lessees under proprietary  leases  from  a  corporation  or  partnership
  formed  for  the  purpose  of  the cooperative ownership of real estate,
  provided: (1) the amount of such loan, advance of  credit,  or  purchase
  made  for  the purpose of financing the alteration, repair, equipping or
  improvement of existing structure or the building of new structure  does
  not  exceed  twenty  thousand dollars; (2) the maturity thereof does not
  exceed one hundred twenty-one months; (3) the rate which may be paid  by
  the borrower for interest, discount, and fees of all kinds in connection
  with the transaction shall be the rate or rates agreed to by the savings
  bank  and the borrower in the promissory note; and (4) the loan shall be
  paid in equal or substantially  equal  monthly  installments  calculated
  from  the  date of the note; provided, however, that in addition thereto
  the savings bank may contract to  charge  the  borrower:  (i)  the  fees
  payable  to  the appropriate public officer to perfect any lien or other
  security interest taken to secure the loan or the premium, not in excess
  of such filing fee, payable for any insurance in lieu  of  such  filing;
  (ii)  in  case  of default, and in accordance with the provisions of the
  instrument evidencing the obligation, either a fine in an amount not  to
  exceed five cents per dollar on any installment which has become due and
  remained  unpaid  for  a  period in excess of ten days, but no such fine
  shall exceed five dollars and only one fine shall be  collected  on  any
  such  installment  regardless  of  the period during which it remains in
  default, and provided further that should the aggregate  of  such  fines
  collected  in  connection  with  any  loan exceed two per centum of such
  loan, or in any event twenty-five dollars, the savings bank shall refund
  such excess to the borrower within sixty days after the loan is paid  in
  full,  or  subject  to an allowance of unearned interest attributable to
  the amount in default, interest on each amount past due at a rate not in
  excess of the  rate  provided  for  in  the  instrument  evidencing  the
  obligation;   (iii)   the   actual  expenditures,  including  reasonable
  attorney's fees, for necessary court  process;  and  (iv)  in  case  the
  savings  bank  insures  a borrower under a credit unemployment insurance
  policy, group life insurance  policy,  group  health  insurance  policy,
  group  accident insurance policy, or group health and accident insurance
  policy, or requires insurance on personal  property  securing  any  such
  loan,  an  amount not in excess of the premiums chargeable in accordance
  with rate schedules then in effect and on file with  the  superintendent
  of financial services for such insurance by the insurer. No savings bank
  shall  require  a  borrower  to  place  any  sum  on deposit, or to make
  deposits in lieu of regular periodic installment payments, or to  do  or
  refrain  from  doing any other act which would entail additional expense
  or sacrifice, as a condition precedent to granting a loan or advance  of
  credit  under  the  authority  of  this subdivision. Notwithstanding the
  provisions of this paragraph no refund of excess fines shall be required
  if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (b) Promissory notes representing loans and advances of credit for the
  purpose  of defraying the cost of attendance of one or more students the
  income of whose family is fifteen thousand dollars or more per  year  at
  the  time the loan or loan commitment is made at a university or college
  or for the purpose of defraying the cost of attendance of  one  or  more
  students  at  an  elementary  or  secondary  school  providing education
  required for minors; provided, however, that no such  loan  shall  bring
  the  total  unpaid  principal  balances of any one or more loans made by
  such savings bank to the borrower pursuant to this  subparagraph  to  an
  amount  in  excess of thirty thousand dollars; and further provided that
  the maturity of any such loan does not exceed  eighty-five  months;  and
  further  provided  that  the  rate which may be paid by the borrower for
  interest, discount, and  fees  of  all  kinds  in  connection  with  the
  transaction shall be the rate or rates agreed to by the savings bank and
  the  borrower  in  the promissory note, reckoned on each loan or advance
  from the date thereof, calculated on any of the following bases: (i)  on
  the unpaid principal amount of such loans and advances from time to time
  outstanding,  or  (ii)  for each month on an average balance outstanding
  determined by dividing  by  two  the  sum  of  the  balances  of  unpaid
  principal  of  such  loans  and advances outstanding on two dates during
  such month, as specified in such agreement; the  first  of  which  dates
  being  not  later  than  the  fifteenth day of such month and the second
  being not earlier than the sixteenth day of such month and not less than
  ten nor more than twenty days after the first day,  or  (iii)  for  each
  month on a fixed amount selected from a schedule, which fixed amount may
  exceed the average daily balance under (i) above, or the average balance
  if  determined under (ii) above, by a differential of not more than five
  dollars, provided the same fixed  amount  is  also  used  for  computing
  interest  for any month for which such balance exceeds said fixed amount
  by any amount up to at least the same differential; and further provided
  that the loan shall be paid in  equal  or  substantially  equal  monthly
  installments  calculated  from the date of the note. No fee, commission,
  expense, or other charge whatsoever shall be taken,  received,  reserved
  or contracted for in addition to the maximum rate of interest authorized
  by  this  subparagraph  except  (i)  the fees payable to the appropriate
  public officer to perfect any lien or other security interest  taken  to
  secure  the  loan  or  the  premium,  not  in excess of such filing fee,
  payable for any insurance in lieu  of  such  filing;  (ii)  in  case  of
  default,  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the instrument
  evidencing the obligation, either a fine in an amount not to exceed five
  cents per dollar on any installment which has become  due  and  remained
  unpaid for a period in excess of ten days, but no such fine shall exceed
  five  dollars  and  only  one  fine  shall  be  collected  on  any  such
  installment regardless of the period during which it remains in default,
  and provided further that should the aggregate of such  fines  collected
  in  connection  with  any loan exceed two per centum of such loan, or in
  any event twenty-five dollars, the savings bank shall refund such excess
  to the borrower within sixty days after the loan is paid  in  full,  or,
  subject  to an allowance of unearned interest attributable to the amount
  in default, interest on each amount past due at a rate not in excess  of
  the rate provided for in the instrument evidencing the obligation; (iii)
  the  actual  expenditures,  including  reasonable  attorney's  fees, for
  necessary court process; and (iv) in case the  savings  bank  insures  a
  borrower  under  a  credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,  group life
  insurance  policy,  group  health  insurance  policy,   group   accident
  insurance  policy,  or  group  health  and accident insurance policy, or
  requires insurance on personal  property  securing  any  such  loan,  an
  amount  not in excess of the premiums chargeable in accordance with rate
  schedules then  in  effect  and  on  file  with  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services  for  such insurance by the insurer. No savings bank
  shall require a borrower to  place  any  sum  on  deposit,  or  to  make
  deposits  in  lieu of regular periodic installment payments, or to do or
  refrain from doing any other act which would entail  additional  expense
  or  sacrifice, as a condition precedent to granting a loan or advance of
  credit under the authority of this subparagraph, except under such terms
  and conditions as the superintendent may  from  time  to  time  approve.
  Notwithstanding  the provisions of this subparagraph no refund of excess
  fines shall be required if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (c) Promissory notes secured by mobile home chattel paper evidencing a
  monetary obligation incurred to finance the purchase of  a  mobile  home
  located  at  the  time  of such purchase, or to be located within ninety
  days, at a semipermanent site within the state or in a contiguous  state
  and  to  be  maintained  as  a residence of the borrower, the borrower's
  spouse, child, grandchild, parent or grandparent.
    (1) For this subparagraph:
    (i) "mobile home chattel paper"  means  written  evidence  of  both  a
  monetary  obligation  and  a  security  interest  of first priority in a
  mobile home and any equipment installed or to be installed therein; and
    (ii)  "mobile  home"  or  "manufactured  home"  means   a   structure,
  transportable  in  one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is
  eight body feet or more in width or forty body feet or more  in  length,
  or  when  erected  on site, is three hundred twenty or more square feet,
  and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used  as  a
  dwelling  with  or  without  a  permanent  foundation  when connected to
  required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning
  and electrical systems contained therein.
    (2) If the loan is for the purpose of financing the purchase of a  new
  mobile home,
    (i)  it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after the
  date thereof, and
    (ii) the amount advanced shall not exceed one hundred per cent of  the
  sum  of  (a)  the  purchase  price  of  such  mobile home (including any
  installed equipment) plus (b) the price of any new  equipment  installed
  or to be installed by the dealer.
    (3)  If  the  loan for the purpose of financing the purchase of a used
  mobile home,
    (i) it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after  the
  date thereof, and
    (ii)  the amount advanced shall not exceed one hundred per cent of the
  purchase price of the mobile home actually paid (including any installed
  equipment).
    (4) The loan shall be payable in equal or substantially equal  monthly
  installments  calculated  from the date of the loan. Interest, which may
  be taken in advance, may be charged thereon, computed from the  date  of
  the  loan to the date of the last installment payable thereunder, if the
  loan has a maturity (i) not exceeding thirty-seven months, at a rate not
  to exceed six dollars per annum discount per one hundred dollars of  the
  face amount or ten dollars if the interest so computed is less than that
  amount,  or  (ii) exceeding thirty-seven months, at a rate not to exceed
  five dollars per annum discount, per one hundred  dollars  of  the  face
  amount  or  ten  dollars  if  the interest so computed is less than that
  amount; provided that the interest which may be charged; if  it  exceeds
  ten  dollars,  shall  not  exceed  one  per cent per month on the unpaid
  principal balance.
    (5) The authorized interest shall  include  all  charges  incident  to
  investigating and making any loan. No fee, commission, expense, or other
  charge  shall  be permitted except that the savings bank may contract to
  charge the borrower (i) the fees payable to a public officer to  perfect
  any  lien  or  other  security interest taken to secure the loan, or the
  premium, not in excess of such fee, payable for any insurance in lieu of
  such filing; (ii) in  case  of  default,  and  in  accordance  with  the
  instrument  evidencing the obligation, either a fine in an amount not to
  exceed five per cent  on  any  installment  which  has  become  due  and
  remained  unpaid  for  a  period in excess of ten days, but no such fine
  shall exceed five dollars and only one fine shall be  collected  on  any
  such installment regardless of the duration of the default, and provided
  further  that should the aggregate of such fines collected in connection
  with any loan exceed two per cent of such loan or  twenty-five  dollars,
  the  savings  bank  shall refund such excess within sixty days after the
  loan is paid in full, or, subject to an allowance of  unearned  interest
  attributable  to the amount in default, interest on each amount past due
  at a  rate  not  in  excess  of  one  per  cent  per  month  during  the
  delinquency;   (iii)   the  actual  expenditures,  including  reasonable
  attorney's fees for necessary  court  process,  and  (iv)  in  case  the
  savings  bank  insures  a borrower under a credit unemployment insurance
  policy, group life, health,  accident,  or  group  health  and  accident
  insurance  policy,  or  requires insurance on the property securing such
  loan, an amount not in excess of the premiums  lawfully  chargeable.  No
  savings bank shall require a borrower to place any sum on deposit, or to
  make deposits in lieu of regular periodic installment payments, or to do
  or  refrain  from  doing  any  other  act  which would entail additional
  expense or sacrifice, as a condition to a mobile home loan except as the
  superintendent may from time to time approve. No refund of excess  fines
  need be made if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (6)  As  a  condition  of  any loan made pursuant hereto, the borrower
  shall certify that the mobile home, against which the loan is  made,  is
  intended  to  be  maintained  in the state or in a contiguous state as a
  residence of the borrower, the  borrower's  spouse,  child,  grandchild,
  parent  or grandparent. If the mobile home shall not be so maintained on
  the ninetieth day next succeeding the date of  the  loan  or  if  it  is
  relocated  so  as  to  no longer be located in the state or a contiguous
  state at any time before the first anniversary of the date of the  loan,
  then,  in  either  event and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
  this subparagraph, the loan and  all  authorized  charges  shall  become
  immediately  due  and  payable  subject  to  the  refund  provisions  of
  subparagraph (c) of paragraph four and the borrower may, if the contract
  so provides, be required to pay as an additional  authorized  charge,  a
  penalty  in  an  amount not to exceed two per cent of the face amount of
  the loan.
    (7) No investment shall be made by a savings bank pursuant  hereto  if
  the  total  amount invested by it pursuant to this subparagraph exceeds,
  or by the making of such investment will  exceed,  an  amount  equal  to
  thirty per cent of the assets of the savings bank.
    (8)  Subject  to such limitations and conditions as the superintendent
  of financial services may prescribe by  general  regulation,  a  savings
  bank  may  make  a  loan pursuant to this subparagraph which the federal
  housing administrator has insured or has made a commitment to insure and
  may receive and hold such  debentures  as  are  issued  by  the  federal
  housing  administrator  in  payment  of  such  insurance,  or  which  is
  guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of the act  of  congress  entitled
  the  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act  of  1944."  No  law of this state
  prescribing the nature, amount or form of security or requiring security
  upon which loans or advances of credit may be  made  or  prescribing  or
  limiting the period for which loans or advances of credit may be made or
  limiting  the  amount  of  any  class  of  loans,  advances of credit or
  purchases  which may be made shall be deemed to apply to loans, advances
  of credit or purchases made or to loans acquired by purchase pursuant to
  this item.
    (d) A borrower may prepay in  full  any  loan  made  pursuant  to  the
  provisions  of  subparagraph  (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph or, with
  the consent of the savings bank, may refinance the loan. In the event of
  such prepayment or refinancing, the savings bank shall refund:  (1)  the
  unearned  portion  of  the  interest to the borrower the amount of which
  portion shall be determined according to a generally accepted  actuarial
  method;  provided,  however,  that  if the amount of interest previously
  deducted (i) was less than ten dollars, no refund shall be required;  or
  (ii)  exceeded  the  sum  of ten dollars and the earned interest is less
  than that amount, the savings bank may retain such an additional  amount
  as  will  bring the earned interest to the sum of ten dollars and refund
  the remainder, and provided further, that unless the loan is refinanced,
  no refund shall be required if it amounts to less than one  dollar;  and
  (2)  if  a charge was made to the borrower for premiums for insuring the
  borrower under  a  credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,  group  life
  insurance  policy,  or  under  a  group  health, group accident or group
  health and accident insurance policy, the excess of the  charge  to  the
  borrower therefor over the premiums paid or payable by the savings bank,
  if  such  premiums were paid or payable by the savings bank periodically
  or the refund for such insurance premium received or receivable  by  the
  savings  bank,  if such premium was paid or payable in a lump sum by the
  savings bank, provided that no such  refund  shall  be  required  if  it
  amounts  to  less  than one dollar. In the event (i) the maturity of the
  loan is accelerated due to the default of the borrower or otherwise  and
  judgment  is  obtained,  or  (ii) repayment is made pursuant to any such
  insurance policy, the borrower or his legal representative, as the  case
  may  be,  shall  be  entitled to the same refund as if the loan had been
  prepaid in full on the date of acceleration or repayment.
    (5) Promissory notes from a resident of the state of New York provided
  that payment of each such note is guaranteed  by  the  New  York  Higher
  Education  Assistance  Corporation, or promissory notes that are insured
  or covered by a commitment to insure or are guaranteed or covered  by  a
  commitment  to guarantee issued by the Federal Education Commissioner in
  accordance with the provisions of the act of congress  entitled  "Higher
  Education Act of 1965".
    8-a.  Promissory notes representing loans for the purpose of financing
  the purchase  of  or  refinancing  an  existing  ownership  interest  in
  certificates of stock or other evidence of an ownership interest in, and
  a  proprietary  lease  from, a corporation or partnership formed for the
  purpose of cooperative ownership of real estate within or  without  this
  state, as provided in this subdivision.
    A  savings bank may, subject to such regulations as the superintendent
  of financial services finds necessary and proper, invest  to  an  amount
  not  exceeding  the maximum per cent of the loan permitted to be made on
  real estate improved by a single family residence occupied by the owner,
  provided that for purposes of this section the amount  of  the  purchase
  price  shall  be deemed to equal the appraised value of such certificate
  of stock or other evidence of an ownership interest, or, in the case  of
  a  refinancing,  the  appraised  value of certificates of stock or other
  evidence of an ownership interest in and a  proprietary  lease  from,  a
  corporation  or  partnership  formed  for the purpose of the cooperative
  ownership of real estate within or without this state, for  the  purpose
  of financing a purchase of or refinancing an existing ownership interest
  in  such  a  corporation or partnership, provided (a) such investment is
  secured within ninety days from the making of the loan by an  assignment
  or  transfer  of the stock or other evidence of an ownership interest of
  the borrower and a proprietary lease; and (b) repayment of principal and
  interest shall be  effected  within  the  same  number  of  years  as  a
  conventional mortgage loan previously described in this subdivision. The
  maximum  rate  of  interest which may be charged, taken or received upon
  any loan or forbearance made pursuant to this subdivision may exceed the
  rate of interest prescribed by the superintendent of financial  services
  in  accordance  with  section fourteen-a of this chapter by no more than
  one and one-half per centum per annum.
    8-b. Personal loan departments. Subject to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent  of  financial services may prescribe, a savings bank may
  operate a personal loan department under the same terms  and  conditions
  as  are  provided  under the provisions of subdivisions four and five of
  section one hundred eight of this chapter.
    The superintendent of financial services shall  be  empowered  (a)  to
  prescribe  the  terms and conditions governing the conduct and operation
  of personal loan departments including, the maximum amount, expressed as
  a percentage of assets or otherwise, which a  savings  bank  may  invest
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this subdivision or in the aggregate,
  taking into account such other provisions of law authorizing investments
  by savings banks, and (b) to prescribe such terms and conditions as  may
  be appropriate to effect or facilitate the transfer of accounts operated
  pursuant  to  the provisions of any other section of this chapter to the
  personal loan departments authorized to be operated hereunder.
    In pursuance of the authority granted hereunder savings banks shall be
  empowered to issue credit cards, extend credit in connection  therewith,
  and otherwise engage in or participate in credit card operations, and to
  act  as financing agency as defined in subdivision nine of section three
  hundred one and subdivision eighteen of section four hundred one of  the
  personal property law.
    8-c.  Subject  to  such regulations as the superintendent of financial
  services  may  prescribe,  promissory  notes  and  other  evidences   of
  indebtedness  representing  commercial,  corporate  or  business  loans,
  provided that the aggregate amount of all such loans outstanding at  any
  time  to any borrower shall, if unsecured, not exceed fifteen per centum
  of the net worth of such savings bank or, if  secured,  subject  to  the
  same limitations as to amount in relation to net worth as are applicable
  to  banks and trust companies pursuant to article three of this chapter.
  For purposes of this section the term "net worth" shall have the meaning
  ascribed to it by subdivision four of section two hundred forty-four  of
  this chapter.
    8-d.  Subject  to  such regulations as the superintendent of financial
  services may prescribe and subject to the limits of subdivision  eight-c
  of  this section and any other applicable limits or requirements imposed
  by  law  or  regulation,  promissory  notes  and   other   evidence   of
  indebtedness  that  represent linked loans, each authorized and approved
  pursuant to article fifteen of the state finance  law  and  each  in  an
  amount  equal  to  a  corresponding linked deposit made pursuant to such
  article.
    8-e. Subject to such regulations as the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may prescribe and subject to the limits of subdivision eight-c
  of this section and any other applicable limits or requirements  imposed
  by   law   or   regulation,  promissory  notes  and  other  evidence  of
  indebtedness that represent linked loans, each authorized  and  approved
  pursuant  to  article  sixteen  of  the state finance law and each in an
  amount equal to a corresponding linked deposit  made  pursuant  to  such
  article.
    9. Real estate as provided in this subdivision.
    (a) A savings bank may purchase or acquire the following real estate:
    (1)  A plot whereon there is or may be erected a building suitable for
  the convenient transaction of the business of  the  savings  bank,  from
  portions of which not required for its own use a revenue may be derived,
  and  a  plot whereon parking accommodations are, or are to be, provided,
  with or without charge, primarily for  its  customers  or  employees  or
  both.  The  aggregate of all investments of a savings bank in such plots
  and buildings shall not exceed five per centum of  the  assets  of  such
  savings bank, except with the approval of the superintendent.
    (2)  Such  as  shall  be  conveyed  to  it  in  satisfaction  of debts
  previously contracted in the course of its business.
    (3) Such as it shall purchase at sales  under  judgments,  decrees  or
  mortgages held by it.
    (4)  In  lieu of instituting an action to foreclose a mortgage lien, a
  savings bank may purchase a deed to the underlying real property.
    (5) A whole or part interest in a "project" as defined in the New York
  state urban development corporation act, pursuant  to  sections  six  or
  eight  of  such act. An investment by a savings bank in a single project
  shall not exceed one per centum of the assets or ten per centum  of  the
  net  worth of such savings bank, whichever is less, and the aggregate of
  all investments of a savings bank in such projects  and  investments  in
  securities   pursuant   to   subparagraph  one-a  of  paragraph  (a)  of
  subdivision twenty-one of this section shall not exceed five per  centum
  of the assets or fifty per centum of the net worth of such savings bank,
  whichever  is less. For the purposes of this subdivision, "net worth" of
  a savings bank shall mean the excess of its assets at book  value,  less
  allocated reserves, over known liabilities.
    * (6) Improved or unimproved real property (either by purchase, lease,
  exchange  or  otherwise),  or any interest therein, to erect, construct,
  rebuild, enlarge, alter, improve, maintain, manage and operate buildings
  or other improvements  of  any  description  thereon,  to  sell,  lease,
  sublet,  mortgage,  exchange  or  otherwise dispose of same and execute,
  perform  and  carry  out   contracts   for   construction,   alteration,
  improvement, maintenance, management or repair thereof, to make loans in
  connection  therewith,  as owner, co-owner or otherwise, subject to such
  specific or general approvals and limitations as shall  be  required  by
  regulations  promulgated  from  time  to  time  by the superintendent of
  financial services pursuant to  this  subparagraph;  provided,  however,
  that  no  activity specified herein, shall be undertaken pursuant to the
  authority contained in this subparagraph  until  the  superintendent  of
  financial   services   shall  have  issued  regulations  specifying  the
  limitations and requirements which shall be imposed in  connection  with
  the  investments  and  activities  referred to herein including, without
  limitation, the consideration of such savings bank's record  in  meeting
  the  credit  needs  of  local  communities within the meaning of section
  twenty-eight-b of this chapter.
    * NB Expired June 30, 1988
    (b) Every parcel of real estate acquired by a savings  bank  shall  be
  conveyed  to  it  directly  by name, or, subject to such regulations and
  restrictions as the superintendent of financial  services  finds  to  be
  necessary  and  proper,  may  be  taken in the name of a duly authorized
  nominee, and the conveyance shall be immediately recorded or  registered
  in  the  office  of  the proper recording officer of the county in which
  such real estate is located.
    10. Bonds and other obligations of Savings and Loan Bank of the  State
  of New York.
    11.  Farm  loan bonds, including consolidated bonds, issued by federal
  land banks,  federal  intermediate  credit  bank  debentures,  including
  consolidated debentures, issued by federal intermediate credit banks and
  bonds,  debentures  or  other  obligations  of  banks  for cooperatives,
  including consolidated  debentures  issued  by  banks  for  cooperatives
  organized under the laws of the United States.
    12.  Bankers' acceptances and bills of exchange which are eligible for
  purchase in the open market by federal reserve banks and which have been
  accepted by a bank, a trust company, a private banker or  an  investment
  company,  as  those  terms  are defined in this chapter, or by a banking
  corporation which is organized under the laws of the United States or of
  any state thereof and which is a member of the federal reserve system.
    Aggregate liability  of  any  bank,  trust  company,  private  banker,
  investment  company  or  banking  corporation  to  any  savings bank for
  acceptances shall not exceed twenty-five per centum of the  capital  and
  surplus  of such bank, trust company, private banker, investment company
  or banking corporation, or five  per  centum  of  the  aggregate  amount
  credited  to  the  depositors  of such savings bank, whichever amount is
  less.
    12-a. * (a) Obligations of any corporation organized under the laws of
  any state of the United States maturing within two hundred seventy days,
  provided  that  such  obligations  receive  the  highest  rating  of  an
  independent rating service designated by the superintendent of financial
  services.
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (a) Obligations of any corporation organized under the laws  of  any
  state  of  the  United  States maturing within two hundred seventy days,
  provided that such obligations meet the  standards  of  creditworthiness
  established by regulation by the superintendent.
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    (b) Subject to such regulations as  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  impose,  certificates of deposit issued by or accounts of
  (1) a bank, trust company or national bank having a principal, branch or
  trust office in this state, (2) a banking  corporation  organized  under
  the laws of the United States or of any state thereof whose deposits are
  insured  by  an  agency of the United States, or (3) an agency or branch
  located within the United States of a foreign banking  corporation  with
  total worldwide bank assets in excess of one billion dollars.
    12-b.  Advances  of federal funds to designated depositaries, provided
  such advances are made on the condition that they be repaid on the  next
  business  day  following  the  day  on  which  the  advance is made. For
  purposes of this subdivision and subdivision twelve of this section, the
  term "federal funds" shall mean  funds  which  a  savings  bank  has  on
  deposit at a depositary which are exchangeable for funds on deposit at a
  federal  reserve bank; and the term "business day" shall mean any day on
  which the savings bank, the depositary  and  the  federal  reserve  bank
  where the funds are on deposit are all open for general business.
    13.  Bonds  of any corporation which at the time of such investment is
  incorporated under the laws of the United States or any  state  thereof,
  or  the  District of Columbia, and transacting the business of supplying
  electrical energy or artificial  gas,  or  natural  gas  purchased  from
  another  corporation  and  supplied  in  substitution for, or in mixture
  with, artificial gas, for light, heat,  power  and  other  purposes,  or
  transacting  any  or  all of such business, provided at least eighty per
  centum of the gross operating  revenues  of  any  such  corporation  are
  derived from such business, subject to the following conditions:
    (a) Such corporation shall have all franchises necessary to operate in
  territory  in which at least seventy-five per centum of its gross income
  is earned. Such  corporation  shall  file  with  the  superintendent  of
  financial services and make public in each year a statement and a report
  giving  the  income  account  covering  the  previous  fiscal year and a
  balance sheet showing in reasonable detail the assets and liabilities at
  the end of the year.
    (b) Either the outstanding  full  paid  capital  stock  together  with
  premiums  thereon  and the surplus of such corporation shall be not less
  than two-thirds of the total debt secured by mortgage lien on  any  part
  or  all  of  its  property,  or  the outstanding full paid capital stock
  together with premiums  thereon  and  surplus  and  unsecured  debt  not
  maturing within five years and not in excess of fifty per centum of such
  capital  stock,  premiums  and  surplus  shall  be  equal  to  at  least
  three-fourths of the total debt secured by mortgage lien on any part  or
  all  of  its  property, provided, however, that in case of a corporation
  having no-par value shares, the amount  of  capital  which  such  shares
  represent shall be the capital as shown by the books of the corporation.
    (c)  Such corporation shall have been in existence for a period of not
  less than eight fiscal years and at no time within such period of  eight
  fiscal  years  next  preceding  the  date  of such investment shall said
  corporation have failed  to  pay  promptly  and  regularly  the  matured
  principal  and  interest  of  all  its  indebtedness  direct, assumed or
  guaranteed, but the period of life of the corporation, together with the
  period of life of any predecessor corporation or corporations from which
  a major portion of its property was acquired by consolidation, merger or
  purchase shall  be  considered  together  in  determining  the  required
  period.
    (d)  For  a period of five fiscal years next preceding such investment
  the net earnings of such corporation shall have averaged  per  year  not
  less  than  two  times  the average annual interest charges on its total
  funded debt applicable to that period, and  for  the  last  fiscal  year
  preceding  such  investment  such  net earnings shall have been not less
  than twice the interest charges for a full year on its total funded debt
  outstanding at the time of such investment,  and  for  such  period  the
  gross operating revenues of any such corporation shall have averaged per
  year not less than two million dollars.
    (e)   In  determining  the  qualifications  of  any  bond  under  this
  subdivision where a corporation shall have acquired its property or  any
  substantial  part  thereof  within  five years immediately preceding the
  date of such investment by consolidation or merger, or by  the  purchase
  of all or a substantial portion of the property of any other corporation
  or  corporations,  the  gross  operating  revenues,  net  earnings,  and
  interest charges of the several predecessor or constituent  corporations
  shall  be  consolidated  and  adjusted  so  as  to ascertain whether the
  requirements of paragraph (d) of this  subdivision  have  been  complied
  with.
    (f)  Such  bonds  shall  be  (1) bonds secured by a first or refunding
  mortgage  on  property  owned  and  operated,  or  controlled,  by   the
  corporation  issuing  or  assuming  them,  or  underlying mortgage bonds
  secured by a lien on property owned and operated, or controlled, by  the
  corporation  issuing  or  assuming  them,  provided that such underlying
  mortgage bonds are to be refunded by a  junior  mortgage  providing  for
  their  retirement, that the bonds under such junior mortgage comply with
  the requirements of this subdivision, and that such underlying  mortgage
  is  either  a  closed  mortgage  or remains open solely for the issue of
  additional bonds which are to be pledged under such junior mortgage  and
  provided  that  the  aggregate principal amount of bonds secured by such
  first or refunding  mortgage  plus  the  principal  amount  of  all  the
  underlying  outstanding  bonds  shall  not  exceed two-thirds of the net
  value of the physical property owned or controlled as shown by the books
  of the owning corporation, and subject to the lien of such  mortgage  or
  mortgages securing the total mortgage debt and provided further, that if
  a  refunding  mortgage,  it must provide for the retirement on or before
  the date of their maturity of all bonds secured by prior  liens  on  the
  property,  or  (2)  bonds, other than mortgage bonds, provided, that (a)
  for a period of five fiscal years next preceding such investment the net
  earnings of such corporation shall have averaged per year not less  than
  two  and one-half times the average annual interest charges on its total
  funded debt applicable to that period, and  for  the  last  fiscal  year
  preceding  such  investment  such  net earnings shall have been not less
  than two and one-half times the interest charges for a full year on  its
  total  funded  debt  outstanding at the time of such investment, and (b)
  the capital stock together with premiums thereon  and  surplus  of  such
  corporation  shall  not be less than two-thirds of its total funded debt
  outstanding, and (c) such bonds,  if  issued  for  a  term  longer  than
  fifteen  years,  shall  have been issued under an indenture containing a
  covenant providing for the establishment  of  a  sinking  fund  for  the
  benefit  of such bonds whereby such bonds shall be redeemed at an annual
  rate of not less than two per centum of the largest principal amount  of
  their  issue  at any one time outstanding, and (d) the mortgage bonds of
  such corporation, if any, shall qualify under  the  provisions  of  this
  subdivision.
    (g) (1) The gross operating revenues and expenses of a corporation for
  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision  shall  be, respectively, the total
  amount  earned  from  the  operation  of,  and  the  total  expense   of
  maintaining  and  operating,  all property owned and operated, or leased
  and operated, by such corporation, as determined by a system of accounts
  adopted by a federal, state  or  municipal  public  service  commission,
  public  utility  commission  or other similar regulatory body. The gross
  operating  revenues  and  expenses,  as  defined  above,  of  subsidiary
  companies  may  be  included,  provided  all  the  mortgage  bonds and a
  controlling interest in stock or stocks of such subsidiary companies are
  pledged as part security for the mortgage debt of the principal company.
  The net value of any property shall be its value as shown by  the  books
  of  the  corporation  less the amounts of any reserves for depreciation,
  retirement or amortization thereof.  Property  shall  be  deemed  to  be
  controlled  by a corporation if such corporation shall own not less than
  ninety per cent of the capital stock  of  the  corporation  owning  such
  property.
    (2)  The  net  earnings  of  any  corporation for the purposes of this
  subdivision shall be the balance obtained by deducting  from  its  gross
  operating  revenues, its operating and maintenance expenses, taxes other
  than federal and state income taxes, rentals and provision for  renewals
  and retirements of the physical assets of the corporation, and by adding
  to said balance its income from securities and miscellaneous sources but
  not,  however,  to  exceed  fifteen per centum of said balance. The term
  funded debt  shall  be  construed  to  mean  all  interest-bearing  debt
  maturing more than one year from date of issue.
    (3)  In  the  computation  for the purposes of this subdivision of the
  ratio of mortgage debt to net mortgaged property value  there  shall  be
  excluded from the amount of outstanding mortgage bonds the amount of any
  cash  deposited  with  the  trustee  of  the  mortgage and held in trust
  pursuant to the terms of such mortgage.
    (h) Not more than twenty-five per centum of the assets of any  savings
  bank  shall  be  loaned on or invested in bonds of such electric and gas
  corporations, and not more than two per centum  of  the  assets  of  any
  savings bank shall be invested in the bonds of any one such corporation,
  as authorized by this subdivision.
    (i)  As  used  in this subdivision, the term "bond" includes a note or
  debenture.
    14. Bonds of any corporation which at the time of such  investment  is
  incorporated  under  the laws of the United States or any state thereof,
  or the District of Columbia, and authorized to engage, and engaging,  in
  the  business  of  furnishing  telephone  service  in the United States,
  subject to the following conditions:
    (a) Such corporation shall have been in existence for a period of  not
  less  than eight fiscal years and at no time within such period of eight
  fiscal years next preceding the  date  of  such  investment  shall  said
  corporation  have  failed  to  pay  promptly  and  regularly the matured
  principal and interest of  all  its  indebtedness  direct,  assumed,  or
  guaranteed, but the period of life of the corporation, together with the
  period of life of any predecessor corporation or corporations from which
  a major portion of its property was acquired by consolidation, merger or
  purchase,  shall  be  considered  together  in  determining the required
  period; and such corporation  shall  file  with  the  superintendent  of
  financial services and make public in each year a statement and a report
  giving  the  income  account  covering  the  previous  fiscal year and a
  balance sheet showing in reasonable detail the assets and liabilities at
  the end of the year.
    (b) The outstanding full paid capital  stock  together  with  premiums
  thereon  and  the  surplus of such corporation shall at the time of such
  investment be equal to at least  two-thirds  of  the  aggregate  of  its
  funded debt and the total funded debt, exclusive of any such funded debt
  held  by  such corporation, of every telephone corporation a majority of
  the capital stock of which is owned by such corporation.
    (c) For a period of five fiscal years next preceding  such  investment
  the  net  earnings  of such corporation shall have averaged per year not
  less than two and one-half times the average annual interest charges  on
  its  total  debt applicable to that period, and for the last fiscal year
  preceding such investment such net earnings shall  have  been  not  less
  than twice the interest charges for a full year on its total funded debt
  outstanding  at  the  time  of  such investment, and for such period the
  gross operating revenues of any such corporation shall have averaged per
  year not less than five million dollars.
    (d)  In  determining  the  qualifications  of  any  bond  under   this
  subdivision  where a corporation shall have acquired its property or any
  substantial part thereof within five  years  immediately  preceding  the
  date  of  such investment by consolidation or merger, or by the purchase
  of all or a substantial portion of the property of any other corporation
  or corporations, the gross operating revenues, net earnings and interest
  charges of the several predecessor or constituent corporations shall  be
  consolidated and adjusted so as to ascertain whether the requirements of
  paragraph (c) of this subdivision have been complied with.
    (e) The gross operating revenues and expenses of a corporation for the
  purposes  of  this  subdivision shall be, respectively, the total amount
  earned from the operation of, and the total expense of  maintaining  and
  operating,  all  property owned and operated, or leased and operated, by
  such corporation, as determined by a system of accounts adopted  by  the
  federal  communications  commission,  a  public  service  commission, or
  public utility commission, or other similar federal or state  regulatory
  body.
    (f)  The  net  earnings  of  any  corporation for the purposes of this
  subdivision shall be the balance obtained by deducting  from  its  gross
  operating  revenues,  its  operating and maintenance expenses, provision
  for depreciation of the physical assets of the corporation, taxes  other
  than  federal and state income taxes, rentals and miscellaneous charges,
  and  by  adding  to  said  balance  its  income  from   securities   and
  miscellaneous  sources but not, however, to exceed fifteen per centum of
  said balance. The term funded  debt  shall  be  construed  to  mean  all
  interest-bearing debt maturing more than one year from date of issue.
    Whenever  a  corporation  shall own a majority of the capital stock of
  one or more other telephone corporations, the consolidated statements of
  all such telephone corporations shall be used in determining the  amount
  of  net  earnings  available  for  interest  charges,  and the amount of
  interest charges, of such corporation.
    (g) Not more than twenty-five per centum of the assets of any  savings
  bank  shall  be  loaned  on  or  invested  in  bonds  of  such telephone
  corporations, and not more than three per centum of the  assets  of  any
  savings  bank  shall  be  invested  in  the  bonds  of any one telephone
  corporation, as authorized by this subdivision.
    (h) As used in this subdivision, the term "bond" includes  a  note  or
  debenture.
    15. Bonds, debentures, consolidated debentures or other obligations of
  any  federal  home loan bank or banks, or of Tennessee Valley Authority,
  and obligations of, or instruments issued by or fully guaranteed  as  to
  principal and interest by, the Federal National Mortgage Association, or
  Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage Corporation, and notes, bonds, debentures,
  mortgages and other evidences  of  indebtedness  of  the  United  States
  Postal Service.
    16. Stock of a federal reserve bank in the amount necessary to qualify
  for membership in such bank.
    17.  Stock  of  a  federal  home  loan bank in the amount necessary to
  qualify for membership in such bank and in such  additional  amounts  as
  are approved by the superintendent of financial services.
    19.  Securities of corporations which securities are made eligible for
  investment by savings banks by the superintendent of financial services.
    20. Subject to such regulations and restrictions as the superintendent
  of financial services finds to be necessary and proper, (a) (1) any bond
  and mortgage insured by the federal housing commissioner, or for which a
  commitment to insure has been made by the federal housing  commissioner,
  or  (2)  any  bond and mortgage guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of
  the act of congress  entitled  the  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act  of
  1944",  or  (3)  provided  the  mortgage  is  a first lien, any bond and
  mortgage at least twenty per centum of which is guaranteed  pursuant  to
  the provisions of such act, or (4) a participation in any loan or a part
  interest  in  any  bond  and  mortgage, secured by real property, to the
  extent that the small business administration is committed  to  pay  the
  principal  and  interest  thereof; (b) any whole or part interest in any
  such bond and mortgage or in any whole or part interest in any such bond
  and mortgage, which bond and mortgage is held for  the  benefit  of  the
  holder  or  holders of a whole interest or part interests therein by any
  entity  or  entities  with  which  a  savings  bank  is  authorized   to
  participate  pursuant to this paragraph, but no such investment shall be
  made in any part interest which is junior or subordinate  to  any  other
  part  interest  therein;  (c)  any  bond secured by any such mortgage or
  mortgages, which mortgage is, or  which  mortgages  are,  held  for  the
  benefit  of  the holder or holders of the bond or bonds secured thereby,
  by a savings bank or  bank  or  trust  company;  and  (d)  any  property
  improvement  note  issued  pursuant  to  the  provisions of the national
  housing act, provided the savings bank investing in such note shall have
  qualified for  and  received  in  connection  therewith  a  contract  of
  insurance  from  the  federal  housing  commissioner. A savings bank may
  receive  and  hold  such debentures as are issued in payment of any such
  insurance. No law of this state prescribing  or  limiting  the  interest
  rate  upon  loans  or  advances  of  credit or prescribing a penalty for
  violation thereof or prescribing the nature, amount or form of  security
  or requiring security upon which loans or advances of credit may be made
  or  prescribing  or  limiting  the period for which loans or advances of
  credit may be made or  limiting  the  amount  of  any  class  of  loans,
  advances  of  credit  or  purchases which may be made shall be deemed to
  apply to loans, advances  of  credit  or  purchases  made  or  to  loans
  acquired by purchase pursuant to this subdivision.
    The  provisions  of  subdivision  six of this section, except those of
  paragraph (f) thereof, shall not apply to investments made  pursuant  to
  this  subdivision  by  any  savings bank. Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
  section one of  chapter  eight  hundred  ninety-seven  of  the  laws  of
  nineteen  hundred  thirty-four  as  amended  shall  not apply to savings
  banks. The term "bond", as used in this subdivision,  includes  a  note.
  The  authority  provided  in  this subdivision to invest in any bond and
  mortgage guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of the  act  of  congress
  entitled  the  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act  of 1944", shall include
  authority to acquire title to real property in connection with investing
  in an installment contract for the sale of real property, so guaranteed,
  where the purchaser under such contract is in possession and control  of
  the  property,  and  title  is  acquired  by  the savings bank solely as
  security for the obligations of the purchaser.
    21.  (a)  Subject  to  such  regulations  and  restrictions   as   the
  superintendent of financial services finds to be necessary and proper:
    (1)  Stock  and  obligations, not otherwise eligible for investment by
  the savings bank, of any corporation organized under  any  law  of  this
  state  for  the purpose of acquiring, constructing, owning, maintaining,
  operating, selling or conveying  a  housing  project  or  projects  (not
  including  hotels but including accommodations for retail stores, shops,
  offices  and  other  community  services  reasonably  incident  to  such
  projects)  located  within  this  state, provided that all the stock and
  obligations of any such corporation have been or are  originally  issued
  to one or more savings banks of this state.
    (1-a). Stock and obligations, not otherwise eligible for investment by
  the  savings  bank,  of  any  "subsidiary"  of  the New York state urban
  development  corporation,  as  defined  in  the  New  York  state  urban
  development corporation act, provided that all the stock and obligations
  of any such subsidiary is or is to be owned by one or more savings banks
  of  this state, or by such other owners of such stock and obligations as
  may be approved by the superintendent of financial services.
    (2) Corporate interest-bearing securities, other than those issued  by
  any  corporation  organized  under  the laws of a foreign country except
  Canada whose securities  are  not  registered  with  the  United  States
  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission or listed on a national securities
  exchange in accordance with the Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as
  amended,  and  interest-bearing  securities  of  any state in the United
  States  or  of  any  public  authority,  commission  or  instrumentality
  organized  under  the  laws  of any state of the United States or of any
  political subdivision of any such  state,  not  otherwise  eligible  for
  investment  by  the  savings bank, which are not in default as to either
  principal or interest when acquired, provided that no  investment  shall
  be  made  pursuant  to  this  subparagraph  (2) in the securities of any
  corporation if the total direct liabilities of such corporation  to  the
  savings  bank  exceed,  or by the making of such investment will exceed,
  ten per centum of the total direct liabilities of  such  corporation  or
  one  per  centum  of the assets of the savings bank, whichever amount is
  less.  The  term  "securities",  as used in this subparagraph (2), means
  such bonds, notes, debentures and other obligations for payment of money
  as are  negotiable,  or  conditional  sale  agreements,  assignments  of
  conditional  sale agreements and participations therein which are issued
  or made by railroads for the purchase of rolling stock, and which have a
  maturity of not less than five years from the date of issue  or  making,
  or,  if  issued  or  made  in  a series or repayable in installments, an
  average maturity of not less than five years from the date of  issue  or
  making.
    (b)  No  investment  shall  be  made  by  a  savings  bank pursuant to
  subparagraphs one and two of paragraph (a) of this  subdivision  if  the
  total  amount  invested  by it pursuant to such paragraph, together with
  the total amount invested by it pursuant to any provisions  of  any  law
  other than the banking law, exceeds, or by the making of such investment
  will  exceed,  an  amount  equal  to ten per centum of the assets of the
  savings bank. An investment by a savings bank in a single subsidiary  of
  the   New   York   state   urban  development  corporation  pursuant  to
  subparagraph one-a of paragraph a of this subdivision shall  not  exceed
  one  per centum of the assets or ten per centum of the net worth of such
  savings bank, whichever is less, and the aggregate of all investments of
  a savings bank  in  such  subsidiaries  and  investments  in  securities
  pursuant  to  subparagraph  five of paragraph (a) of subdivision nine of
  this section shall not exceed five per centum of the assets or fifty per
  centum of the net worth of such savings bank, whichever is less. For the
  purposes of this paragraph, "net worth" of a savings bank shall mean the
  excess of its assets at book value, less allocated reserves, over  known
  liabilities.
    (d) For the purposes of sections two hundred seventy-four, two hundred
  eighty-five  and  four  hundred thirty-five of this chapter, investments
  authorized by this subdivision shall not be deemed investments in  which
  savings  banks may legally invest, except that investments authorized by
  subparagraph one-a of paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall be  deemed
  investments  in  which savings banks may legally invest for the purposes
  of section three hundred seventy-nine of this chapter.
    (e) For the purposes of section  three  hundred  fifty-nine-f  of  the
  general  business  law,  investments  authorized by sub-paragraph (2) of
  paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall not  be  deemed  investments  in
  which savings banks may legally invest.
    * 21-a.  Interest-bearing  obligations  payable in United States funds
  which at the time of investment are rated in one of  the  three  highest
  rating  grades  by each rating service, designated by the superintendent
  of financial services, which has rated such obligations,  provided  that
  the  aggregate  amount  invested in the obligations of any single issuer
  pursuant to  this  subdivision  and  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (2)  of
  paragraph  (a)  of subdivision twenty-one of this section may not exceed
  one per centum of the assets of the savings bank, and  provided  further
  that  the  aggregate amount invested in the interest-bearing obligations
  of any single issuer pursuant to this subdivision and  pursuant  to  any
  provision  of this section specifically authorizing such investment, may
  not exceed the percentage limitations contained in any such provision.
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * 21-a.  Interest-bearing  obligations  payable in United States funds
  which at the time of investment meet the standards  of  creditworthiness
  established  by  regulation  by  the  superintendent,  provided that the
  aggregate amount invested  in  the  obligations  of  any  single  issuer
  pursuant  to  this  subdivision  and  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (2) of
  paragraph (a) of subdivision twenty-one of this section may  not  exceed
  one  per  centum of the assets of the savings bank, and provided further
  that the aggregate amount invested in the  interest-bearing  obligations
  of  any  single  issuer pursuant to this subdivision and pursuant to any
  provision of this section specifically authorizing such investment,  may
  not exceed the percentage limitations contained in any such provision.
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    22. Certificates of investment in savings banks life insurance fund.
    23. Certificates representing advances to the surplus fund of its life
  insurance department.
    24. Obligations issued or guaranteed by  the  international  bank  for
  reconstruction and development.
    24-a.   Obligations   issued   or  guaranteed  by  the  inter-American
  development bank.
    24-b. Obligations issued or guaranteed by the Asian development bank.
    24-c. Obligations issued or  guaranteed  by  the  African  Development
  Bank.
    24-d. Obligations guaranteed by the youth facilities project guarantee
  fund and participations therein.
    24-e.  Obligations  issued  or guaranteed by the International Finance
  Corporation.
    25. Obligations of the Dominion of Canada, or of any province or  city
  of  the  Dominion  of  Canada,  as  provided  in  this  subdivision. (a)
  Obligations of the Dominion of Canada, or those for which the  faith  of
  the  Dominion  of  Canada  is  pledged to provide for the payment of the
  interest and principal, provided that the principal and interest of such
  obligations are payable in United States funds.
    (b) Obligations of any province of the Dominion of Canada or those for
  which the faith of any such province  is  pledged  to  provide  for  the
  payment of the interest and principal upon which there is no default and
  upon  which  there  has  been  no  default  for  more  than ninety days;
  provided, that within ten years  immediately  preceding  the  investment
  such  province  has not been in default for more than ninety days in the
  payment of any part of principal or interest of any debt duly authorized
  by the legislature of such province; and provided that the principal and
  interest of such obligations are payable in  United  States  funds;  and
  provided  further,  that  if  at  any  time the net debt, as hereinafter
  defined, of any such province shall exceed twenty-five per centum of the
  valuation of  real  property  in  such  province  for  the  purposes  of
  taxation,  the obligations of such province shall, thereafter, and until
  such net debt  shall  be  reduced  to  twenty-five  per  centum  of  the
  valuation  of  real  property  in  such  province  for  the  purposes of
  taxation, cease to be an authorized investment for the moneys of savings
  banks. The term "net debt" as used in  this  paragraph  shall  mean  the
  aggregate  of  all  direct  obligations  funded and unfunded of any such
  province and all other obligations excluding any on  which  interest  is
  being  paid  out  of  other than the ordinary revenues of such province;
  less sinking funds applicable to such obligations.
    (c) Obligations of any city in Canada, provided that said city  has  a
  population,  according  to  the  last  federal  census  of  Canada  next
  preceding said investment, of not less than one hundred  fifty  thousand
  inhabitants,  and  has  not,  within  twenty-five  years  preceding said
  investment, defaulted for more than one hundred and twenty days  in  the
  payment  of  any part either of principal or interest of any bond, note,
  or other evidence of indebtedness, provided  that  the  indebtedness  of
  such  city  does  not exceed the limitations imposed by paragraph (c) of
  subdivision five of this section if  applicable;  and  provided  further
  that  the  principal  and  interest  of  such obligations are payable in
  United  States  funds.  No  obligations  of  any  such  city shall be an
  authorized investment for savings banks  unless  such  city  shall  have
  power to levy taxes on the taxable real property therein or to require a
  levy  thereon  by  municipalities within its area in either case for the
  payment of such obligation without limitation of  rate  or  amount.  The
  term  "city"  as  used  in  this  paragraph  and  in  paragraph  (d)  of
  subdivision five of this  section  shall  include  The  Municipality  of
  Metropolitan  Toronto  and  any other similar corporation in Canada, and
  the power to require a levy by municipalities within its area  shall  be
  deemed  to  be  a  power  to  levy taxes within the meaning of such last
  mentioned paragraph.
    (d) Not more than ten per centum of the assets of  any  savings  banks
  shall  be  invested  in the obligations defined in this subdivision, and
  not more than two per centum of such assets shall  be  invested  in  the
  obligations of any province, nor more than two per centum of such assets
  in the obligations of any city, as authorized by this subdivision.
    26. Subject to such regulations and restrictions as the superintendent
  of financial services finds to be necessary and proper:
    (a)  Preferred stock of any corporation, created or existing under the
  laws of the United  States  or  of  any  state,  district  or  territory
  thereof, provided (1) the net earnings of such corporation available for
  its  fixed  charges for a period of five fiscal years next preceding the
  date of investment by such savings bank shall have averaged per year not
  less than one and one-half times the sum of the following,  computed  as
  of  the  date  of such investment: its annual fixed charges, if any, its
  annual maximum contingent interest, if any,  and  its  annual  preferred
  dividend  requirements;  and  (2) during either of the last two years of
  such period such net earnings shall have been  not  less  than  one  and
  one-half  times  the  sum  of its fixed charges, contingent interest and
  preferred dividend requirements for such year. As used in this paragraph
  (a), the  term  "dividend  requirements"  shall  be  construed  to  mean
  cumulative or non-cumulative dividends whether or not paid.
    (b)  Guaranteed stock of any corporation created or existing under the
  laws of the United  States  or  of  any  state,  district  or  territory
  thereof,  provided  (1) the net earnings of the guaranteeing corporation
  available for its fixed charges for a period of five fiscal  years  next
  preceding  the  date  of  investment  by  such  savings  bank shall have
  averaged per year not less than one and one-half times its annual  fixed
  charges  computed  as  of  the  time  of such investment; and (2) during
  either of the last two years of such period net earnings shall have been
  not less than one and one-half times its fixed charges for such year.
    (c) Common stock of any corporation created or existing under the laws
  of the United States or of any state,  district  or  territory  thereof,
  provided  such  common  stock  is  registered  on  a national securities
  exchange, as provided in an  act  of  congress  of  the  United  States,
  entitled  the  "Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934", approved June sixth,
  nineteen hundred thirty-four, as amended.
    (e) Stock or shares of any investment  company,  as  defined  by,  and
  which  is  registered  under,  an  act of congress of the United States,
  entitled  the  "Investment  Company  Act  of  1940",   approved   August
  twenty-second, nineteen hundred forty, as amended, provided such company
  may  invest  only in such investments as are eligible for savings banks,
  including, without limitation, investments  made  eligible  for  savings
  banks  by  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this subdivision but excluding
  investments made eligible for savings banks by subdivisions five-a, six,
  eight, nine, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, twenty-two  and  twenty-three
  of  this  section,  provided that (i) investment restrictions based upon
  the assets, surplus fund, net worth or other features of  the  condition
  or  operation  of  the  savings  bank  shall  not  be applicable to such
  investment company, (ii) the amount of stock of  any  corporation  which
  may  be held by such investment company shall not exceed five per centum
  of the number of shares of stock of such corporation outstanding at  the
  time of investment by such investment company, and (iii) at the time the
  investment  is  made,  the  percentage of assets that a savings bank may
  invest in the stock or shares of the investment company shall not exceed
  the limitation, if any, applicable to a savings bank's investment in any
  individual security included  in  the  investment  company's  portfolio.
  Nothing  contained  in  the  provisions of this chapter shall prevent an
  officer, director, clerk or other employee of any bank or trust  company
  from  being  an  officer,  director  or  employee of any such investment
  company.
    (ee) Stock of any "bank service corporation", as such term is  defined
  by  an  act of congress of the United States, entitled the "Bank Service
  Corporation  Act",  approved  October  twenty-third,  nineteen   hundred
  sixty-two,  as  such act may be amended from time to time, provided such
  investment shall have been authorized by the superintendent.
    (eee) Stock or shares of any investment company, as  defined  by,  and
  which  is  registered  under,  an  act of Congress of the United States,
  entitled  the  "Investment  Company  Act  of  1940",   approved   August
  twenty-second,  nineteen  hundred  forty, as amended, provided: (1) such
  company is managed, advised and has its assets held at a bank  or  trust
  company  which is supervised and examined by the superintendent; (2) all
  of the stock and shares, other than stock or shares required by  law  to
  qualify  directors, of such investment company are or are to be owned by
  savings banks, savings and loan associations and pension trusts,  funds,
  plans  or  agreements  participated  in  by one or more savings banks or
  savings and loan associations to provide retirement benefits, for any or
  all of its  or  their  active  officers  and  employees;  and  (3)  such
  investment  company  may invest only in investments as are made eligible
  for savings banks by subdivisions one, two, three, four and  fifteen  of
  this  section.  For  the  purpose  of  investments  authorized  by  this
  paragraph, no investment shall be made by a savings bank  if  the  total
  amount  invested  by it exceeds, or by the making of the investment will
  exceed, an amount equal to thirty-five percent of its assets.
    (f) For the purposes of this subdivision, (1) the term  "net  earnings
  available  for  fixed  charges"  shall  mean  net income after deducting
  operating and maintenance expenses, taxes other than federal  and  state
  income  taxes,  depreciation  and depletion, but excluding extraordinary
  non-recurring items of  income  or  expense  appearing  in  the  regular
  financial   statements   of   the   issuing,  assuming  or  guaranteeing
  corporation; provided, however, that in the case  of  preferred  stocks,
  federal and state income taxes shall also be deducted in determining net
  earnings available for fixed charges; (2) the term "fixed charges" shall
  include  interest  on  funded  and  unfunded  debt, amortization of debt
  discount and rentals for leased properties;  (3)  if  net  earnings  are
  determined  in  reliance upon consolidated earnings statements of parent
  and subsidiary corporations, such net earnings shall be determined after
  provision for income taxes of subsidiaries and  after  proper  allowance
  for  minority stock interest, if any, and the required coverage of fixed
  charges shall be  computed  on  a  basis  including  fixed  charges  and
  preferred  dividends  of  subsidiaries  other than those payable by such
  subsidiaries  to  the  parent  corporation  or  to  any  other  of  such
  subsidiaries;  and  (4)  in  applying  the  earnings  tests  under  this
  subdivision to any issuing, assuming, or guaranteeing corporation, where
  such corporation shall have acquired its  property  or  any  substantial
  part  thereof  within  the  five years immediately preceding the date of
  investment  by  consolidation  or merger, or by the purchase of all or a
  substantial portion of any other corporation or corporations,  or  shall
  have  acquired  the  assets of any unincorporated business enterprise by
  purchase or otherwise, the gross  operating  income,  net  earnings  and
  interest charges of the several predecessor or constitutent corporations
  or  enterprises  shall  be  consolidated and adjusted so as to ascertain
  whether or not the applicable requirements of this subdivision have been
  complied with.
    (g) No investment  shall  be  made  by  a  savings  bank  pursuant  to
  paragraphs  (a),  (b)  or  (c)  of  this subdivision in the stock of any
  corporation if the total investment by the savings bank in the stock  of
  such  corporation  exceeds,  or  by  the  making of such investment will
  exceed (1) in amount, one per centum of the assets of the savings  bank,
  or  (2)  in  number  of  shares,  two per centum of the total issued and
  outstanding shares of stock of such corporation.
    (h) No investment  shall  be  made  by  a  savings  bank  pursuant  to
  paragraph  (a),  (b)  or  (c) of this subdivision if the total aggregate
  amount so invested by it exceeds, or by the making  of  such  investment
  will  exceed,  an  amount  equal to seven and onehalf per centum of its
  assets.
    (i) No investment in an investment company shall be made by a  savings
  bank  pursuant  to paragraph (e) of this subdivision if the total amount
  invested by it  in  all  such  investment  companies  pursuant  to  such
  paragraph  exceeds,  or by the making of such investment will exceed, an
  amount equal to seven and one-half per centum of its assets.
    (k) For the purposes of sections two hundred seventy-four, two hundred
  eighty-five and four hundred thirty-five of  this  chapter,  investments
  authorized  by this subdivision shall not be deemed investments in which
  savings banks may legally invest.
    (l) For the purposes of any other statutes which restrict  investments
  to  securities authorized for investment by savings banks, including but
  not limited to section ninety-two of  the  membership  corporation  law,
  section  9.27  of  the  mental  hygiene  law  and  sections  fifteen and
  twenty-five-a of the workmen's compensation law, investments  authorized
  by  this  subdivision,  shall not be deemed investments in which savings
  banks may legally invest.
    26-a.  (1)  Subject  to  such  regulations  and  restrictions  as  the
  superintendent  of  financial services finds to be necessary and proper,
  the stock or obligations of one or more corporations engaged, or  to  be
  engaged,  primarily  in  originating  and  servicing  mortgages  on real
  property, provided, however, that if the savings  bank  shall  own  less
  than  all  of  the  stock  and  obligations of any such corporation, the
  remainder of the stock, excluding directors' qualifying shares, if  any,
  and  obligations  of  such  corporation  shall  be  owned by one or more
  savings banks or savings and loan associations located in this state.
    (2) No investment shall be made pursuant to  this  subdivision  unless
  the  corporation  in  which  such  investment  is  to be made shall have
  furnished satisfactory assurance to the superintendent that it  will  be
  subject  to  examination by him to the same extent as if the business of
  such corporation were being conducted by the savings  bank  on  its  own
  premises. No investment shall be made by a savings bank pursuant to this
  subdivision  if  the  total  amount so invested by it exceeds, or by the
  making of such investment will exceed, an amount equal to one per centum
  of its assets.
    (4) For the purposes of any other provisions  of  law  which  restrict
  investments  to  those  in which savings banks may legally invest, other
  than subdivision five of section  three  hundred  seventy-nine  of  this
  chapter,  investments authorized by this subdivision shall not be deemed
  investments in which savings banks may legally invest.
    27.  For  the  purposes  of  this  section the term "state", when used
  generally to include every state of the United States, includes also the
  commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the term "city", when used generally to
  include cities in every state of the United States,  includes  also  any
  municipality of the commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
    28.  Bonds, notes or evidences of indebtedness issued by a corporation
  organized  for  the  purpose  of  undertaking,   constructing,   owning,
  maintaining,  operating,  selling  or  conveying  a  slum  clearance and
  redevelopment project, located within this state, pursuant to title  one
  of  an  act  of  congress  of the United States approved July fifteenth,
  nineteen hundred forty-nine, entitled the  "Housing  Act  of  1949,"  or
  organized  pursuant  to  articles  five  and  six of the private housing
  finance law, and secured by a  first  mortgage  upon  all  of  the  real
  property  owned  by  the  corporation.  A  mortgage loan made under this
  subdivision may equal but shall in no event exceed ninety per centum  of
  the  cost as estimated prior to the completion of the project, or ninety
  per centum of the total actual final cost, if that shall be greater than
  the estimated cost, but in no event, shall  such  mortgage  loan  exceed
  ninety  per  centum  of  the  appraised  value  of the completed project
  determined pursuant to subdivision six of this  section.  The  estimated
  cost  and  the  total  actual  final  cost  shall  be  certified  as  to
  reasonableness   and   correctness   by   an   independent   engineering
  organization  and shall include the cost to the corporation of the lands
  owned  by  the  corporation,  the  cost  of  demolition,  the  cost   of
  constructing    the   improvements,   including   planning,   designing,
  engineering and landscaping, the cost of relocation of tenants, interest
  and other carrying charges during  the  period  of  acquisition  and  of
  construction,   all   other  costs  necessarily  incurred  and  properly
  attributable to undertaking, constructing and  completing  the  project,
  and  an  allowance  for working capital which shall not exceed an amount
  equal to three per centum of the estimated cost or of the  total  actual
  final  cost  of  the project if that shall be greater than the estimated
  cost. A mortgage loan made under this subdivision may be participated in
  by one or more savings banks. An agreement setting forth the  manner  in
  which  the participating banks shall administer the mortgage and acquire
  real estate, if any, shall be executed on behalf of  each  bank  by  two
  persons  appointed  by  the  board of trustees of such bank. Investments
  made by any savings bank in mortgage loans pursuant to this  subdivision
  and  pursuant  to paragraph (h) of subdivision six of this section shall
  not, in the aggregate, exceed ten per centum of the assets or an  amount
  equal  to  the surplus fund and undivided profits and surplus reserve of
  such savings bank, whichever is less,  and  shall  be  included  in  the
  computation  of  permissive  investment  in  mortgage  loans pursuant to
  paragraph (d) of subdivision six of this section.  Investments  in  such
  mortgage  loans shall be subject to such regulations and restrictions as
  the superintendent of financial  services  finds  to  be  necessary  and
  proper.
    28-a.  Such  bonds  or  other  evidences  of  indebtedness  issued  or
  guaranteed by the State of Israel as are approved by the comptroller  of
  the  currency  for investment by national banks; provided, however, that
  the principal and interest payable thereon shall be  payable  in  United
  States dollars; and provided that such investments may not exceed in the
  aggregate  five  percent  of  the  bank's  capital  deposits,  undivided
  profits, surplus and reserves.
    28-b.  Such  acquisitions  and  leases  of  personal  property  as are
  authorized to be made by  commercial  banks  by  subdivision  twelve  of
  section  ninety-six  of  this  chapter,  subject  to  those  limitations
  applicable to such investments in the case of banks or trust companies.
    29. Subject to such restrictions as the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  prescribe,  stock or other equity interest in one or more
  small business investment  companies,  as  authorized  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of an act of congress entitled "Small Business Investment Act
  of  1958,"  as amended, or in any entity established to invest solely in
  such small business investment companies, except that in no event  shall
  the  total  amount  of  such  investments  exceed:  (a) for a stock form
  savings bank five  percent  of  its  capital  stock,  surplus  fund  and
  undivided  profits;  or (b) for a non-stock savings bank five percent of
  its net worth.
    30. Alternative investment authority of savings  banks  to  invest  in
  certain   securities.   Notwithstanding  the  limitations  contained  in
  subdivision one, two, three, four, five, seven,  seven-a,  ten,  eleven,
  thirteen,   fourteen,   fifteen,  nineteen,  twenty-one-a,  twenty-four,
  twenty-four-a, twenty-four-b,  twenty-four-c,  twenty-five,  twenty-six,
  twenty-seven,  twenty-eight-a,  or  subparagraph two of paragraph (a) or
  paragraph (b) of subdivision twenty-one of this section, and subject  to
  such  limitations  as  the  superintendent  of  financial services shall
  adopt, a savings bank  shall  be  authorized  to  invest  in  such  debt
  securities as are not in default as to either principal or interest when
  acquired,  and  in  such  equity  securities,  in both cases as would be
  acquired by prudent persons  of  discretion  and  intelligence  in  such
  matters  who  are  seeking a reasonable income and preservation of their
  capital.
    Without  limiting  its  authority  hereunder,  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services  shall adopt regulations to require that any savings
  bank which shall elect to make investments pursuant to this  subdivision
  shall  have  first  established  an investment committee of its board of
  trustees to supervise and monitor the investment activities  exercisable
  pursuant  to  the authority granted by this subdivision, the majority of
  the members of which shall be trustees who  are  not  also  officers  or
  employees of such savings bank.
    The  superintendent  of  financial  services shall, in addition, adopt
  regulations to require that  no  savings  bank,  in  making  investments
  pursuant to this subdivision shall (either before or after the making of
  such  investments)  control, as the superintendent of financial services
  shall define the term "control",  the  issuer  of  any  such  securities
  acquired by such savings bank.
    For purposes of any other law establishing or limiting the investments
  of  any  person  or  entity to those investments which are permitted for
  savings banks, the investments authorized by this subdivision shall not,
  by virtue of this subdivision alone, be deemed investments  in  which  a
  savings bank may legally invest.
    31.  Subject  to  such  regulations as the superintendent of financial
  services may promulgate, investments which do not qualify under  any  of
  the preceding subdivisions of this section, provided that:
    (a)  No  investment  shall  be made by a savings bank pursuant to this
  subdivision if the amount of such investment exceeds one per  centum  of
  the  assets  of the savings bank, or if the aggregate amount of all such
  investments by a  savings  bank  exceeds,  or  by  the  making  of  such
  investment will exceed, five per centum of its assets;
    (b)  No  investment  shall  be  made  by  a savings bank in the equity
  securities of any  one  issuer  pursuant  to  this  subdivision  if  the
  aggregate  amount  invested  by it pursuant to this subdivision together
  with the amount  invested  in  the  equity  securities  of  such  issuer
  pursuant to any other provision of law exceeds, or by the making of such
  investment  will  exceed,  one  per  centum of the assets of the savings
  bank, and no investment shall be made by a savings bank in a loan to, or
  in the debt securities of, any one issuer pursuant to this  subdivision,
  if  the  aggregate  amount  invested  by it pursuant to this subdivision
  together with the  amount  invested  in  a  loan  to,  or  in  the  debt
  securities  of,  such  issuer  pursuant  to  any  other provision of law
  exceeds, or by the making of such investment will exceed, one per centum
  of the assets of the savings bank;
    (c) This subdivision shall not be deemed to  alter  any  provision  of
  this  chapter limiting the aggregate amount which may be invested in any
  class of loan or investment;
    (e) For the purposes of this subdivision, "net  worth"  of  a  savings
  bank  shall  mean the excess of its assets at book value, less allocated
  reserves, over known liabilities; and
    (f) For the purposes of sections two hundred seventy-four, two hundred
  eighty-five and four hundred thirty-five of this chapter, section  three
  hundred  fifty-nine-f  of  the  general  business  law,  and  any  other
  provisions of law which restrict investments to those in  which  savings
  banks  may  legally  invest, other than subdivision six of section three
  hundred seventy-nine of this chapter,  investments  authorized  by  this
  subdivision  shall  not be deemed investments in which savings banks may
  legally invest.


::: 236:deposits_by_savings_banks_with_other_banking_corporations_and_private_bankers_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 236.  Deposits  by savings banks with other banking corporations and
  private bankers; restrictions. 1. Except for investments  made  pursuant
  to  subdivision  twelve-a  of  section  two  hundred thirty-five of this
  chapter, no savings bank shall deposit any of its funds with  any  other
  banking corporation or private banker unless such corporation or private
  banker  has been designated as a depositary by vote of a majority of all
  the trustees of the savings bank, exclusive of any  trustee  who  is  an
  officer, partner, director or trustee of the depositary so designated.
    2.  The  amount  deposited  by  any  savings  bank  in any depositary,
  including  investments  made  pursuant  to  subdivisions  twelve-a   and
  twelve-b  of  section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter, shall not
  exceed twenty-five per centum of the net worth  as  shown  by  the  last
  published statement of such depositary, if a corporation, or twenty-five
  per  centum  of  the  permanent capital and surplus as shown by the last
  published statement of such depositary, if a private banker, or five per
  centum of the aggregate  amount  credited  to  the  depositors  of  such
  savings bank, whichever is smaller.


::: 237:deposits_with_savings_banks_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 237.  Deposits  with savings banks; restrictions. 1. No savings bank
  shall accept any deposit for  credit  to  any  executor,  administrator,
  trustee,  committee,  conservator  or  guardian,  named  in  a  will  or
  appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, unless a certified  copy
  of  the  will, order or decree of the court authorizing such deposits or
  appointing such executor, administrator, trustee, committee, conservator
  or guardian, or a certificate of such  appointment  is  filed  with  the
  savings bank.
    2.  No  savings  bank  shall  accept  any  deposit  for  credit to any
  municipal corporation.
    3. A savings bank may limit the aggregate amount which it will receive
  on deposit; may, in its discretion, refuse to accept a deposit; and  may
  at  any  time return all or any part of any deposit other than a deposit
  held pursuant to subdivision one-a of section two hundred thirty-four of
  this chapter.
    4. Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of law, a  savings  bank
  may  accept  deposits  of  moneys  paid  under  and  as security for the
  performance of any lease or leases, or to be applied to  payments  under
  such  lease  or  leases  when  due,  although the person depositing such
  moneys is held accountable therefor as a trustee of trust funds.  Moneys
  received  from  or  held  for  persons  under more than one lease may be
  deposited in one or more accounts.
    Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of law, the  word  "person"
  as  used in this subdivision four shall include an individual, municipal
  corporation,  partnership,  corporation,  association   or   any   other
  organization operated for profit.
    5.  Nothing  contained in this section shall require a savings bank to
  return any deposit lawfully held by  it  at  the  time  this  act  takes
  effect.
    6.  Nothing  contained  in  this  section  or in this chapter shall be
  construed to prevent a savings bank from accepting a deposit or deposits
  in any amount in any account in the name of or to the credit of any bona
  fide charitable or religious association, corporation or organization.
    7. Subject to any  regulations  and  restrictions  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, a savings bank shall have power to
  act  as  trustee  under  a  retirement  plan established pursuant to the
  provisions of the act of congress  entitled  "Self-employed  Individuals
  Tax  Retirement Act of 1962", and provisions of law contained therein as
  amended, provided that the provisions of such  retirement  plan  require
  the  funds  of  such  trust  to  be  invested exclusively in deposits in
  savings banks. In the event that any such retirement plan which, in  the
  judgment  of  the  savings  bank, constituted a qualified plan under the
  provisions of said Self-employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962,
  and provisions of law contained therein as amended, and the  regulations
  promulgated  thereunder  at  the  time  the  trust  was  established and
  accepted by the savings bank is subsequently determined not to be such a
  qualified plan or subsequently ceases to be such a  qualified  plan,  in
  whole or in part, the savings bank may, nevertheless, continue to act as
  trustee  of any deposits theretofore made under such plan and to dispose
  of the same in accordance with the directions of the depositor  and  the
  beneficiaries  thereof.  No  savings  bank,  in respect to deposits made
  under this subdivision, shall be bound by any provision of this  chapter
  restricting  or limiting the amount of deposits which a savings bank may
  accept, or be required to segregate such deposits from other deposits of
  such savings banks, provided, however, that a savings  bank  shall  keep
  appropriate records showing in proper detail all transactions engaged in
  under the authority of this subdivision.
    8.  Subject  to  any  regulations  and  restrictions prescribed by the
  superintendent of financial services, a savings bank shall have power to
  act as trustee of an individual retirement account established  pursuant
  to  the  provisions of the act of congress entitled "Employee Retirement
  Income  Security  Act  of  1974",  provided  that  the provisions of the
  written governing instrument creating the trust  require  the  funds  of
  such  trust  to be invested exclusively in deposits in savings banks. In
  the event that any such individual  retirement  account,  which  in  the
  judgment  of  the  savings  bank,  constituted  a  qualified  individual
  retirement account under the  provisions  of  said  Employee  Retirement
  Income  Security  Act of 1974 and the regulations promulgated thereunder
  at the time the trust was established and accepted by the  savings  bank
  is  subsequently  determined  not  to  be  such  a  qualified individual
  retirement account  or  subsequently  ceases  to  be  such  a  qualified
  individual  retirement  account,  in  whole or in part, the savings bank
  may,  nevertheless,  continue  to  act  as  trustee  of   any   deposits
  theretofore made under such individual retirement account and to dispose
  of  the  same in accordance with the directions of the depositor and the
  beneficiaries thereof. No savings bank,  in  respect  to  deposits  made
  under  this subdivision, shall be bound by any provision of this chapter
  restricting or limiting the amount of deposits which a savings bank  may
  accept, or be required to segregate such deposits from other deposits of
  such  savings  banks,  provided, however, that a savings bank shall keep
  appropriate records showing in proper detail all transactions engaged in
  under the authority of this subdivision.


::: 238:regulations_and_restrictions_as_to_repayment_of_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 238.  Regulations  and  restrictions as to repayment of deposits. 1.
  The repayment of deposits made with any savings bank  and  any  interest
  credited thereto, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and
  to  rules  and  regulations  made  in  accordance  therewith.  Any  such
  regulations adopted by the board  of  trustees  shall  be  posted  in  a
  conspicuous  place  in  the  office or offices of such savings bank, and
  shall be available to  depositors  upon  request.  All  such  rules  and
  regulations,  from  time  to time in effect, and all amendments thereto,
  from time to time in effect, shall be binding upon all depositors.
    2. A savings bank may at any time by a  resolution  of  its  board  of
  trustees  require  a notice of sixty days before repaying deposits which
  are not demand deposits, in which event no non-demand deposit  shall  be
  due  or  payable  until sixty days after notice of intention to withdraw
  the same shall have been personally given by  the  depositor.  Any  such
  non-demand deposit shall cease to be due or payable under such notice or
  by  reason  thereof  upon the fifteenth day after the expiration of such
  sixty days' notice if not withdrawn by  the  fifteenth  day  thereafter.
  Nothing herein contained, however, shall be construed as prohibiting any
  savings bank from making payments of such deposits before the expiration
  of  said  sixty  days' notice. Except as provided in subdivision four of
  this section and in subdivision one-a of section two hundred thirty-four
  of this chapter, no savings bank shall  agree  with  its  depositors  in
  advance  to  waive said sixty days' notice nor shall it require a longer
  notice than sixty days. In the event that any savings bank shall require
  that notice be given before such deposits may  be  withdrawn  it  shall,
  upon   the   day   such   requirement  is  made  effective,  notify  the
  superintendent by telephone or telegraph that such requirement has  been
  made.
    3.  Except  as  provided  in  subdivisions  four, five and six of this
  section, a savings bank shall  not  pay,  nor  shall  a  depositor,  his
  assignee  or anyone claiming through a depositor, be entitled to receive
  any interest or deposit or portion of a deposit, unless the passbook  of
  the  depositor  be  produced and the proper entry be made therein at the
  time of the payment. The board of trustees, however, may provide in  the
  by-laws  for  making  payments  in  cases  of loss of passbook, or other
  exceptional cases where the passbooks cannot be produced without serious
  inconvenience to depositors. The board of trustees may  further  provide
  in  the  by-laws  for  the  payment  of  interest to a depositor without
  requiring the production of the passbook, provided that such payment  is
  made  (a)  pursuant  to the written request of the depositor, and (b) by
  check payable to the order of the depositor.  The  right  to  make  such
  payments  without  production  of  the  passbook  shall  cease  when the
  superintendent shall so direct, upon his being satisfied that such right
  is being improperly exercised. Payments, however, may be made  upon  the
  judgment  or  order of a court. Where payment is made without production
  of the passbook in accordance with its by-laws, a savings bank shall not
  be liable to an assignee of that  passbook  for  such  payment  if  such
  assignee  has  not,  prior to such payment, served upon the savings bank
  written notice of the assignment. When authorized by the depositor,  or,
  in  the  case of a joint account, by both depositors, a savings bank may
  charge the account of such depositor or depositors for any sums due  the
  insurance  department  of  such  savings  bank,  or  due  the  insurance
  department of any other savings bank for  which  it  is  agent,  without
  requiring the production of the passbook for the recording of the charge
  therein.  For the purpose of this subdivision, the term "passbook" shall
  include any  evidence  of  ownership  of  a  deposit  held  pursuant  to
  subdivision  one-a  of  section two hundred thirty-four of this chapter,
  subject,  however,  to  such  regulations  and   restrictions   as   the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  may  prescribe pursuant to such
  subdivision.
    4.  A  savings bank may contract with its depositors to repay deposits
  of fixed sums made at regular intervals, other than demand deposits  and
  deposits  held  pursuant  to  subdivision  one-a  of section two hundred
  thirty-four of this chapter, at a given time with all interest  credited
  thereon  or to repay said deposits when, together with interest credited
  thereon, they shall equal a specific sum and  may  issue  a  certificate
  setting  forth the given sum to which such deposits shall be accumulated
  or the given time during which the deposits  and  the  interest  thereon
  shall be accumulated. Such contract shall not provide for any forfeiture
  of  the sums deposited in the event of the discontinuance of the regular
  payments. Interest on club accounts, if offered,  must  be  credited  at
  least  quarterly and may not be forfeited once credited, in the event of
  the discontinuance of regular payments. Any savings bank which  provides
  for  deposits  in club accounts shall, in all advertising, announcements
  or brochures pertaining to such accounts, state whether or not  interest
  is  paid  thereon and, if interest is paid, shall state the rate or form
  of interest so paid in accordance with any rules  and  regulations  that
  may be prescribed by the superintendent.
    4-a.  If  a  deposit held pursuant to subdivision one-a of section two
  hundred thirty-four of this chapter is repaid prior to maturity  at  the
  request  of  a  depositor,  such  repayment  shall  be  subject  to such
  penalties as the superintendent of financial services  may  find  to  be
  necessary and proper, except that no such penalty shall be imposed where
  the depositor has died or been declared legally incompetent.
    5.  A savings bank may accept deposits from an employer or an employee
  group, to be credited to the individual accounts of  the  members  of  a
  group  of  employees having a common employer, without the issuance of a
  passbook in connection therewith, and may pay to any one of the  members
  of  such  group, or to his authorized agent, in person, the whole or any
  part of such deposits credited to his account together with the interest
  credited thereon, without requiring the production of a passbook.
    6. Subject to any  regulations  and  restrictions  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent   of  financial  services,  a  savings  bank  may  accept
  deposits, including demand deposits, without the issuance of a  passbook
  in  connection  therewith,  and  may  issue  such other evidences of its
  obligation to repay such deposits as may be appropriate to safeguard the
  interests of the depositors and of the savings bank.


::: 239-a:preservation_of_books_and_records.html
 
    &#167;  239-a.  Preservation of books and records. Every savings bank shall
  preserve all its records of final entry, including cards used under  the
  card system and deposit tickets, for a period of at least six years from
  the  date of making the same or from the date of the last entry thereon;
  provided,  however,  that  preservation  of  photographic  reproductions
  thereof or records in photographic form shall constitute compliance with
  the  requirements  of  this  section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe  by  regulation  such
  period of time longer or shorter than six years during which all records
  kept by saving banks as fiduciary shall be preserved in original form.


::: 239:repayment_of_deposits_of_minors_trust_deposits_joint_deposits_and_deposits_adversely_claimed_interpleader_in_certain_actions_statute_of_limitatio.html
 
    &#167; 239.   Repayment  of  deposits  of  minors,  trust  deposits,  joint
  deposits,  and  deposits  adversely  claimed;  interpleader  in  certain
  actions;  statute  of limitations. 1. Any deposit made by or in the name
  of any minor shall be held for the exclusive right and benefit  of  such
  minor,  and  free  from the control or lien of all other persons, except
  creditors, and  shall  be  paid  together  with  the  interest  credited
  thereon,  to  the person in whose name the deposit shall have been made,
  and the receipt or acquittance of  such  minor  shall  be  a  valid  and
  sufficient  release and discharge to the savings bank for any payment so
  made.
    5. Notice to any savings  bank  of  an  adverse  claim  to  a  deposit
  standing on its books to the credit of any person shall not be effectual
  to  cause such savings bank to recognize such adverse claimant unless he
  shall also either procure  a  restraining  order,  injunction  or  other
  appropriate  process against such savings bank from a court of competent
  jurisdiction in a cause therein instituted by him wherein the person  to
  whose credit the deposit stands or his executor or administrator is made
  a  party and served with summons, or shall execute to such savings bank,
  in form and with sureties acceptable to it  a  bond,  indemnifying  such
  savings  bank  from  any  and  all  liability,  loss,  damage, costs and
  expenses, for and on account of the payment of such adverse claim or the
  dishonor of the order of the person to whose credit the  deposit  stands
  on the books of such savings bank; provided, that this section shall not
  apply  in  any  instance  where  the  person to whose credit the deposit
  stands  is  a  fiduciary  for  such  adverse  claimant,  and  the  facts
  constituting  such  relationship, and the facts showing reasonable cause
  for belief on the part of such claimant that such fiduciary is about  to
  misappropriate such deposit, are made to appear by the affidavit of such
  claimant.
    6.  (a)  In  all actions against any savings bank to recover moneys on
  deposit therewith, if there be any person or persons, not parties to the
  action, who claim the same fund,  the  court  in  which  the  action  is
  pending  may, on the petition of such savings bank, and upon eight days'
  notice to the plaintiff and such claimants, and without proof as to  the
  merits  of  the  claim,  make  an  order amending the proceedings in the
  action by making such claimants parties defendant thereto; and the court
  shall thereupon proceed to determine the rights  and  interests  of  the
  several  parties to the action in and to such funds. The remedy provided
  in this section shall be in  addition  to  and  not  exclusive  of  that
  provided in any other interpleader provision.
    (b)  The  funds on deposit which are the subject of such an action may
  remain with such savings bank to the credit of the  action  until  final
  judgment therein, and be entitled to the same interest as other deposits
  of  the  same  class,  or,  in  the  case  of  deposits held pursuant to
  subdivision one-a of section two hundred thirty-four of this chapter, to
  interest at the rate specified in the deposit  contract  until  maturity
  and  at  the  rate  at  which  interest  is  credited on regular savings
  accounts from maturity until final judgment, and shall be paid  by  such
  savings bank in accordance with the final judgment of the courts; or the
  deposit  in  controversy  may  be  paid  into  court  to await the final
  determination of the action, and when the deposit is so paid into  court
  such  savings bank shall be struck out as a party to the action, and its
  liability for such deposit shall cease.
    (c) The costs in  all  actions  against  a  savings  bank  to  recover
  deposits  shall  be  in  the discretion of the court, and may be charged
  upon the fund affected by the action.


::: 23:acceptance_or_rejection_of_certificate_investigation_fees.html
 
    &#167; 23.  Acceptance  or  rejection  of  certificate; investigation fees.
  Within twenty days after  the  receipt  by  the  superintendent  of  any
  organization certificate of a corporation proposed to be organized under
  this  chapter,  or  any  private banker's certificate together with such
  documents as are required to  be  filed  therewith,  the  superintendent
  shall,  if  such  certificate  and such accompanying documents comply in
  form and substance with the requirements  of  this  chapter,  file  such
  certificate for examination and note thereon the date of such filing. If
  such  certificate  or  such  accompanying documents do not comply in all
  respects with the  requirements  of  this  chapter,  the  superintendent
  shall,  within  twenty  days  after  receipt thereof, return them to the
  persons from whom they were received, calling attention to the defect or
  defects therein.
    At  the  time  of  submission  of  the  certificate  and  accompanying
  documents  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed  pursuant  to  section
  eighteen-a of this article shall be paid to the  superintendent,  to  be
  retained by him or her if the certificate and accompanying documents are
  filed.  If  the  certificate  and  accompanying  documents are not filed
  because of defects therein, the investigation fee is to be returned with
  such papers to the persons from whom they were received.


::: 240-a:electronic_facilities.html
 
    &#167; 240-a.  Electronic  facilities. A savings bank may conduct a banking
  business, at automated teller  machines,  point-of-sale  terminals,  and
  similar  facilities  subject  to regulations which may be promulgated by
  the superintendent of financial services. Such facilities shall  not  be
  deemed  to be branches and shall not be subject to any of the provisions
  of  this  chapter  applicable  to  branches;   provided   however   that
  notwithstanding   the  foregoing,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  (b)  of
  subdivision two of section two  hundred  forty  of  this  chapter,  such
  facilities  shall be deemed to be branches, and such facilities shall be
  subject to the terms and conditions of section two  hundred  forty,  and
  for  purposes of section twenty-eight-b of this chapter, such facilities
  shall be deemed to be branches.


::: 240-b:acceptance_of_united_states_currency.html
 
    &#167; 240-b.  Acceptance  of United States currency. No savings bank shall
  impose a fee, commission or service charge for accepting for deposit  or
  exchanging  for  other United States currency any United States currency
  provided that any coins are properly  rolled  and  have  the  customer's
  account  number  for  that  savings  bank  displayed  on  the coin roll,
  provided  further  that  no  more  than  ten  rolls  of  coins  in   any
  denomination are presented for deposit or exchange at any one time.


::: 240:restrictions_as_to_place_of_business_branch_offices.html
 
    &#167; 240.  Restrictions  as  to  place  of business; branch offices. 1. A
  savings bank shall not be located in the same room with  or  in  a  room
  connecting with any bank, trust company or national bank, unless it be a
  savings  bank  lawfully  so  located  when  this  act  takes effect. The
  prohibitions of this subdivision shall not  apply  to  automated  teller
  machines,  point-of-sale  terminals  and  similar facilities established
  pursuant to section one hundred five-a, two  hundred  forty-a  or  three
  hundred  ninety-six-a  of  this  chapter  or pursuant to any federal law
  authorizing a national bank to operate a similar facility.
    2. No savings bank, or trustee, officer, agent  or  employee  thereof,
  shall  transact  any  part of its usual business of banking at any place
  other than its principal office except as follows:
    (a) A savings bank may open and occupy one or more branch  offices  at
  any  location  in  the  state.  In addition, a savings bank may open and
  occupy a branch office or branch offices in one or more  places  located
  without the state of New York.
    (b)  An  office  of  an  affiliated  bank  at which the customers of a
  savings bank may make deposits, renew time deposits,  make  withdrawals,
  close  loans,  service  loans,  and  receive payments on loans and other
  obligations shall not be deemed a branch office of  such  savings  bank.
  For  the  purposes of this section, the term "affiliated bank" means any
  bank, as such term is defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Federal  Deposit
  Insurance  Act  (12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1)), that is a subsidiary of the same
  bank holding company, as that term is defined in section 2 of  the  Bank
  Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841).
    (c)  Except  for  the city or village in which its principal office is
  located, no branch  office  may  be  opened  and  occupied  pursuant  to
  paragraph  (a)  of  this  subdivision  in  any  city  or  village with a
  population of fifty thousand or less and in which is already located the
  principal  office  of  a  bank,  trust  company  or   national   banking
  association,  other  than  a  bank holding company, if such bank holding
  company is a banking institution, or a  banking  subsidiary  of  a  bank
  holding   company,  as  such  terms  "bank  holding  company",  "banking
  institution" and "banking subsidiary" are defined in section one hundred
  forty-one of this chapter except that the definition  of  "bank  holding
  company"  is  modified  to  change  the  phrase  "a banking institution"
  wherever it appears therein to "two or more  banking  institutions"  and
  the  definition  of  "banking institution" is modified to add a national
  banking association,  the  principal  office  of  which  institution  is
  located in this state.
    (d)  (1)  If  so  provided  in  the  merger  or asset acquisition plan
  submitted to the superintendent pursuant to section six hundred  one  or
  six  hundred  one-a  of  this  chapter,  and  if  such  merger  or asset
  acquisition is permitted by law, a savings bank may, in addition to  the
  authority  granted  under paragraph (a) of this subdivision, and without
  limitation  by  any  of  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (c)   of   this
  subdivision,  maintain  as a branch office, or branch offices, the place
  or  places  of  business  of  any  savings  bank  or  savings  and  loan
  association, federal savings bank, federal savings and loan association,
  bank,  trust company, national bank, or out-of-state state bank (as such
  term is defined in section two hundred twenty-two of this chapter) which
  it has received into itself by merger or asset acquisition  pursuant  to
  this  chapter  which  were  in existence at the time the merger or asset
  acquisition becomes  effective,  including  any  branch  office  of  the
  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan association, or bank or trust company
  with which it has merged or from which it has acquired assets which  has
  been approved pursuant to subdivision three of this section or paragraph
  (c)   of  subdivision  two  of  section  three  hundred  ninety-six,  or
  subdivision two of section one hundred five of this chapter even if such
  branch office is not in operation at  the  time  said  merger  or  asset
  acquisition  becomes effective and may maintain, as its principal office
  rather than as a branch office, the principal office of such institution
  with  which  it has merged or from which it has acquired assets (so long
  as the principal office is located in this state), in  which  event  the
  former  principal office of the receiving savings bank may be maintained
  as a branch office.
    (2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in  subparagraph  one  of
  this  paragraph,  any  public  accommodation  office  of a savings bank,
  savings and loan association, or bank or trust company  which  has  been
  merged  or  had  assets  acquired  in  an asset acquisition transaction,
  including any such office which has been approved  pursuant  to  section
  one  hundred ninety-one of this chapter but which is not in operation at
  the time said merger or asset  acquisition  becomes  effective,  may  be
  maintained  by  the  receiving  savings  bank  as a public accommodation
  office only.
    (e) If so provided in an agreement  submitted  to  the  superintendent
  pursuant  to  section  six hundred one-c of this chapter, a savings bank
  may, in addition to the authority granted under paragraph  (a)  of  this
  subdivision,  and  without  limitation  by  any  of  the  provisions  of
  paragraph (a) or (c) of this subdivision, maintain as a branch office or
  offices the place or places of business of any savings bank  or  savings
  and loan association which it has acquired pursuant to such agreement as
  authorized by section six hundred one-c of this chapter.
    3.  Before  any branch office shall be opened and occupied pursuant to
  paragraph (a) of subdivision two of  this  section,  the  superintendent
  shall have given his written approval.
    4.  The  term  "village"  as used in this section shall mean either an
  incorporated or an unincorporated village.


::: 241:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office.html
 
    &#167; 241.  Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
  Any savings bank may make a written application to  the  superintendent,
  such application to be accompanied by an investigation fee as prescribed
  pursuant  to section eighteen-a of this chapter, for leave to change its
  place or one of its places of business to another place in the state  or
  for  leave to change the designation of its principal office to a branch
  office and to change the designation of one of its branch offices to its
  principal office. This application shall  state  the  reasons  for  such
  proposed  change.  Such  change may be made upon the written approval of
  the superintendent.  If  the  superintendent  shall  grant  his  or  her
  certificate  authorizing  the change of location, as provided in article
  two of this chapter, the  savings  bank  may,  upon  or  after  the  day
  specified  in  the  certificate,  remove its property and effects to the
  location designated therein.


::: 242:assets_how_entered_and_carried_on_books_disallowance_by_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 242.  Assets;  how  entered  and  carried  on books; disallowance by
  superintendent. 1. No savings bank shall by any system of accounting  or
  any  device  of  bookkeeping,  directly  or  indirectly enter any of its
  assets upon its books in the name  of  any  individual,  partnership  or
  unincorporated  association  or  of  any other corporation, or under any
  title or designation that is not truly descriptive  thereof,  except  as
  authorized by the provisions of this article.
    2.  The  stocks,  bonds,  promissory  notes  or other interest-bearing
  obligations purchased by a savings bank shall be entered on its books at
  the actual cost thereof, and shall not thereafter be  carried  upon  the
  books  at  a  valuation exceeding their cost as adjusted by amortization
  for the  purpose  of  bringing  them  to  par  at  maturity;  and  where
  securities  purchased  at  a premium are callable prior to maturity, the
  rate of amortization thereof shall be increased when necessary  to  such
  extent  as  shall reduce the amount at which such securities are carried
  upon the books to the call price at the date or dates upon which a  call
  may be made. No adjustment for amortization shall be required to be made
  on  the  books  except  when  the  books  are  closed for the purpose of
  computing net earnings. The superintendent may by  regulation  vary  the
  requirements  of this subdivision to permit the amortization of premiums
  at  the  same  rate  as  that  required  by  federal  tax  statutes   or
  regulations.
    3.   No   savings   bank,   without   the   written  approval  of  the
  superintendent, shall enter  on  its  books  its  real  estate  and  the
  building  or  buildings  thereon, or its fixtures, vaults, furniture and
  equipment, at a valuation exceeding its  actual  cost  to  such  savings
  bank,  or  carry  such  real  estate,  building  or buildings, fixtures,
  vaults, furniture or equipment at a valuation exceeding the actual  cost
  less   appropriate   allowance   for  depreciation.  No  adjustment  for
  depreciation shall be required to be made on the books except  when  the
  books are closed for the purpose of computing net earnings.
    4.  Real  estate  acquired by a savings bank, other than that acquired
  for use as a place of business, shall be entered on  the  books  of  the
  savings  bank  in  conformity with the method of accounting for troubled
  debt restructurings approved by the financial accounting standards board
  or such other method of accounting as may be authorized or  required  by
  rules and regulations of the superintendent of financial services.
    The   provisions   of  this  subdivision  shall  not,  except  as  the
  superintendent may otherwise require, apply to any parcel of real estate
  as to which the savings bank has exercised its  option  to  transfer  or
  convey  such  real  estate to the veterans administration or the federal
  housing commissioner pursuant to insurance or guaranty.
    5. The superintendent may disallow the book value  of  any  assets  in
  whole  or in part. In such event the savings bank shall reduce the value
  at which such assets are carried on its books to the  value  allowed  by
  the superintendent, or, if the written approval of the superintendent is
  first obtained, may allocate a reserve for the valuation of such assets.


::: 243:surplus_fund.html
 
    &#167; 243.  Surplus  fund. 1. Every savings bank shall create a fund to be
  known as a surplus fund. Such  fund  may  be  created  or  increased  by
  contributions  made  by the incorporators as provided in this article or
  by transfers from undivided profits or by  transfers  from  earnings  as
  required  in  this article. Such fund up to ten per centum of the amount
  due depositors shall not be available for any purpose  other  than  that
  specified  in  subdivision  two  of  this section, except with the prior
  written approval of the superintendent, provided that such fund shall be
  available without such approval for the purpose of  paying  expenses  or
  absorbing  losses  only  in the event such savings bank has no undivided
  profits against which such expenses or losses may be charged.
    2. Contributions of incorporators or trustees to the surplus fund  may
  be  repaid  pro rata in such amounts as will not reduce the surplus fund
  below five per centum of the amount due depositors, provided the written
  approval of the superintendent shall be required before  any  repayments
  may  be  made that will reduce the surplus fund below the amount created
  at the time of incorporation of the  savings  bank.    In  case  of  the
  liquidation  of the savings bank before the contributions to the surplus
  fund have been repaid, any portion of such contributions not needed  for
  the payment of the expenses of liquidation and the payment of depositors
  and creditors in full may be repaid to the contributors pro rata.
    3.  Contributions  heretofore made by incorporators or trustees of any
  savings bank to pay its expenses or to maintain its solvency,  under  an
  agreement  with  the  superintendent  that  such  contributions  may  be
  returned whenever such return will  not  affect  the  solvency  of  such
  savings  bank  or render it unsafe to continue business, may be returned
  in accordance with the provisions of such agreement.
    4. The aggregate of the  guaranty  fund  and  expense  fund  of  every
  savings  bank  at  the  time  this act takes effect shall constitute the
  surplus fund at that date and shall thereafter be  subject  to  all  the
  provisions of this article relating to surplus fund.


::: 244:earnings_how_and_when_to_be_computed_transfers_to_surplus_fund.html
 
    &#167; 244.  Earnings;  how  and  when to be computed; transfers to surplus
  fund.  1. Every savings bank shall close its books  no  less  frequently
  than  quarterly.  To determine the amount of gross earnings for any such
  accounting period the following items shall be included:
    (a)  All  earnings  actually  received,  less  interest  accrued   and
  uncollected included in a previous computation of earnings;
    (b) Interest accrued and uncollected upon debts owing to it, exclusive
  of  debts  or  portions  of  debts,  which  its board of trustees or the
  superintendent shall have directed to be excluded from  the  computation
  of the accrual;
    (c)  Amounts  added  to  cost  for  the  purpose  of amortizing bonds,
  promissory notes or other  interest-bearing  obligations  purchased  for
  less than par;
    (d)  Any  profits  actually received from the sale of securities, real
  estate or other property owned by it;
    (e) Amounts recovered on  assets  previously  charged  off,  including
  amounts  allowed  by  the superintendent on account of assets previously
  disallowed by him and other amounts allowed by the board of trustees  on
  account  of  assets previously disallowed by it. For the purpose of this
  paragraph amounts transferred to valuation reserves shall be  considered
  as amounts charged off;
    (f)  Provided  the superintendent shall have approved, and only to the
  extent of such approval, any increase in the  book  value  of  the  real
  estate  and  building  or  buildings  thereon used by it as its place or
  places of business;
    (g) Such other items as the superintendent, in his discretion and upon
  his written consent, may permit to be included.
    2. To determine the amount of net earnings for such accounting period,
  the following items shall be deducted from gross earnings:
    (a) Any expenses paid or incurred, both ordinary and extraordinary, in
  the transaction of its business, the collection of debts owing to it and
  the management of its affairs, less expenses incurred and deducted in  a
  previous computation of earnings;
    (b)  Interest  paid or accrued and unpaid upon deposits held by it and
  upon debts owing by it, less interest accrued  upon  such  deposits  and
  debts and deducted in a previous computation;
    (c)  Amounts  deducted  from cost for the purpose of amortizing bonds,
  promissory notes or other  interest-bearing  obligations  purchased  for
  more than par;
    (d)  Any losses sustained by it, except to the extent that such losses
  have been charged against the surplus fund or valuation reserves. Losses
  to be deducted from gross earnings shall include all deductions from the
  book value of assets made pursuant to the directions  of  the  board  of
  trustees   or   by   reason   of  the  disallowance  of  assets  by  the
  superintendent, and shall include amounts  transferred  to  a  valuation
  reserve,  other  than  amounts  transferred  to  the  surplus fund under
  subdivision  three  of  this  section.  With   the   approval   of   the
  superintendent, any items referred to in this paragraph may be excluded.
  For  the  purposes of this paragraph, provision for disallowances may be
  effected by charge off or by establishment of valuation reserve and  any
  existing  valuation  reserve  may  be deducted from the related asset in
  determining the amount of loss sustained.
    The balance thus obtained shall constitute the net  earnings  of  such
  savings bank for such period.
    3.  If  at  the  close  of  any accounting period the net worth of any
  savings bank, including the net earnings for that period, is  less  than
  ten  per  centum of the amount due to depositors, including all interest
  accrued and credited for  that  period,  such  per  centum  of  its  net
  earnings  for  such period as may be determined by the superintendent of
  financial services shall be credited to its surplus fund.
    4.  For  purposes of this article, the term "net worth" shall mean the
  excess of assets at book value,  less  allocated  reserves,  over  known
  liabilities.


::: 245:interest_payments.html
 
    &#167; 245.   Interest  payments.  1.  A  savings  bank  may  classify  its
  depositors according to the  character,  amount  or  duration  of  their
  dealings with the savings bank.
    2.  In  the  discretion of a majority of all the trustees, the amounts
  contributed by incorporators or trustees to  the  surplus  fund  may  be
  credited  with  interest  at  the same rate that interest is credited to
  depositors.  Such  interest  may  be  paid  in  cash  or  added  to  the
  contributions  previously  made  and if so added shall be subject to all
  provisions of this article relating to contributions of incorporators or
  trustees to the surplus fund. If interest on such contributions  is  not
  paid  for  any  period  at  the time interest for such period is paid to
  depositors, the contributors shall not thereafter receive or be credited
  with any interest for such period.
    3. A savings bank shall not pay any interest  on  any  deposit  for  a
  longer  period  than the same has been on deposit, except as provided in
  subdivision three-a of this section.
    3-a. Deposits made not later  than  the  tenth  calendar  day  of  any
  calendar  month  may be credited with interest from the first day of the
  month in which such deposits were made, and deposits withdrawn upon  one
  of  the last three business days of any interest period or, in the event
  that one of such last  three  business  days  is  a  Saturday,  deposits
  withdrawn upon one of the last four business days of any interest period
  may  be credited with interest as if they had remained on deposit to the
  end of  the  interest  period.  If  the  by-laws  so  provide,  deposits
  withdrawn  before  the  close of an interest period may be credited with
  interest to the first day of the month in which such withdrawal is made.
  The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to deposits on  which
  interest is credited pursuant to subdivision three-b of this section.
    3-b. Subject to such limitations and restrictions as may be prescribed
  by  regulation  of  the  superintendent of financial services, a savings
  bank may credit interest on deposits from the date on which the  deposit
  is made to the date the deposit is withdrawn.


::: 246-a:executive_committee_and_other_committees.html
 
    &#167; 246-a.   Executive   committee  and  other  committees.  1.  If  the
  organization certificate  or  the  by-laws  so  provide,  the  board  of
  trustees  by  resolution  adopted by a majority of the entire board, may
  designate from among its members an executive committee consisting of at
  least five trustees and other committees each consisting of two or  more
  trustees,  officers  or  other persons, not including alternate members,
  but not less  than  may  otherwise  be  required  by  this  chapter  nor
  differing  in composition from any requirement of this chapter, and each
  of which shall have such authority as may be provided in the  resolution
  or  in  the  organization  certificate or by-laws or under this chapter,
  except that no such committee shall have authority as to  the  following
  matters:
    (a)  The  filling of vacancies in the board of trustees or in any such
  committee;
    (b) The fixing of compensation of the  trustees  for  serving  on  the
  board or on any committee;
    (c)  The  amendment  or  repeal of the by-laws, or the adoption of new
  by-laws;
    (d) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the  board  which  by
  its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable;
    (e)  The taking of action which is expressly required by any provision
  of this chapter to be taken at a meeting of the board or by a  specified
  proportion of the trustees.
    2.  Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the board.  The
  designation or appointment of, or making  of  provision  for,  any  such
  committee  and  the  delegation  thereto  of  authority  shall not alone
  relieve any trustee of his duty to the savings bank under any  provision
  of this chapter.
    3.  Minutes  shall  be kept of each meeting of each such committee and
  records shall be kept of all action taken in exercise of  the  authority
  or  in performance of the function of each such committee.  Such minutes
  and records shall be submitted to the board of  trustees  and  shall  be
  filed with the records of the savings bank.


::: 246:board_of_trustees_number_vacancies_qualifications_oath_and_declaration.html
 
    &#167; 246.  Board of trustees; number; vacancies; qualifications; oath and
  declaration. 1.  (a)  The  board  of  trustees  shall  have  the  entire
  management  and  control  of  the affairs of the savings bank. A savings
  bank shall have such number of trustees as the  board  of  trustees  may
  establish  from  time  to time. Such number shall be not less than seven
  nor more than twenty. Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  this  section
  relating  to the number of trustees, where two or more savings banks are
  merged or where one or more savings and loan associations merge  into  a
  savings bank and the merger agreement so provides, the board of trustees
  may  consist  of a number not more than thirty, and such number shall be
  reduced to not more than twenty by the  elimination  of  one  authorized
  office  for  every two vacancies that occur. No trustee in office on the
  thirty-first day  of  March,  nineteen  hundred  thirty-eight  shall  be
  required  to  vacate  his  office  by  reason  of the provisions of this
  subdivision relating to the number of  trustees.  The  bylaws  may  also
  prescribe  three-year  terms  of  office for trustees, in which case the
  total authorized number of trustees, as well as all incumbent  trustees,
  shall  be  divided  into  three  classes  as  nearly  equal in number as
  possible, the terms of each such class to expire in successive years  on
  a date specified in the bylaws.
    (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph of this
  section, a vacancy now existing or hereafter occurring in the  board  of
  trustees  of a savings bank, which savings bank resulted from the merger
  of  two  or  more  savings  banks  or  one  or  more  savings  and  loan
  associations  and  a  savings  bank,  may  be  filled,  even  though the
  remaining number of trustees exceeds twenty, by election thereto of  one
  or  more  of  the three highest ranking officers of the savings bank who
  are not then trustees, provided (1) that the superintendent of financial
  services shall have given his prior written approval that  such  vacancy
  be  filled,  (2) that the election of such officer or officers shall not
  result in having more  than  three  active  officers  on  the  board  of
  trustees  at  any  one  time,  and (3) that the total number of trustees
  shall in no event exceed the number authorized by the merger agreement.
    (c) The bylaws of a savings bank may prescribe a  maximum  age  beyond
  which no person shall be eligible for election to the board of trustees,
  and  may  prescribe  a mandatory retirement age of seventy-five years or
  less for trustees, subject to the following limitations:
    (i) No person shall be eligible for  initial  election  as  a  trustee
  after December thirty-first, nineteen hundred sixty-eight who is seventy
  years of age or more; and
    (ii)  No  person  shall  continue  to serve as a trustee past December
  thirty-first of the year in  which  such  trustee  reaches  the  age  of
  seventy-five years.
    (d)  In  the  case  of  a  savings  bank  which does not adopt a bylaw
  prescribing a mandatory retirement age for  trustees  prior  to  January
  first,   nineteen   hundred  sixty-nine,  or  which  does  not  maintain
  thereafter a bylaw prescribing such  a  mandatory  retirement  age,  the
  office of a trustee of such savings bank shall become vacant on the last
  day  of the month in which such trustee reaches his seventieth birthday,
  or on December thirty-first, nineteen hundred sixty-eight, whichever  is
  the later.
    2.  Vacancies  in the board may be filled by election by the remaining
  trustees at a regular meeting of the board. A savings bank shall  report
  to  the superintendent within ten days the occurrence of any vacancy and
  shall likewise report the name,  address,  age  and  occupation  of  the
  person  elected  to  fill  any  vacancy and the name of the person whose
  place he fills.
    3. No person shall be a trustee of a savings bank who
    (a) Is not a citizen of the United States and at least eighteen  years
  of age.
    (b)  Has, within fifteen years immediately prior to his election, been
  adjudicated a bankrupt or has taken the benefit of any  insolvency  law,
  or has made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
    (c)  Has  suffered a judgment recovered against him for a sum of money
  to remain unsatisfied or unsecured for a period of more than six  months
  from  the  date  of  entry thereof provided, however, no person shall be
  ineligible for election as a trustee of a savings bank if such  judgment
  was  satisfied  of  record  more than one year prior to the date of such
  election.
    (d) Is a trustee, officer or employee of any other savings bank.
    (e) Would, upon his election,  become  the  third  salaried  full-time
  employee  of  the  savings  bank on its board of trustees if such board,
  with his election, would have twelve or less trustees,  or  would,  upon
  his  election,  become  the  fourth  salaried  full-time employee of the
  savings bank on its board of trustees if such board, with his  election,
  would  have  more than twelve trustees; provided, however, that with the
  written approval of the superintendent four salaried full-time employees
  may serve as trustees of a savings bank resulting from the merger of two
  or more savings banks or the merger of one  or  more  savings  and  loan
  associations  into  a savings bank if, immediately prior to such merger,
  each such person was a salaried full-time employee and a  trustee  or  a
  director of a merging institution.
    (f) No trustee in office on April first, nineteen hundred sixty-eight,
  shall  be  ineligible  for  the  office  of  trustee  by  reason  of the
  provisions of paragraph (e) of this subdivision.
    4. No person shall be a trustee of a savings bank if:
    (a) Such person's spouse is a trustee or one of the five highest  paid
  salaried officers of such institution;
    (b)  Such  person  or such person's spouse is the grandparent, parent,
  child, grandchild, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, nephew or  niece  of  a
  trustee  or  one  of  the  five  highest  paid salaried officers of such
  institution; or
    (c) A trustee or one of the five highest  paid  salaried  officers  of
  such  institution  is  the  spouse  of  such person's child, grandchild,
  brother or sister.
    No trustee in office on September first, nineteen hundred  seventy-one
  shall  be  ineligible  for  the  office of trustee by reason of the pro-
  visions of this subdivision.
    5. No person who is a director or trustee of a bank, trust company  or
  a  national  bank  located  in  this state, operating a special interest
  department, or of a  mortgage  or  title  company  organized  under  the
  banking  law  or insurance law, shall be eligible to election as trustee
  of a savings bank, if, after such election a majority of the trustees of
  such  savings  bank  will  be  directors  or  trustees  of  such   other
  institutions.
    6.  Every trustee, before entering upon his duties, shall take an oath
  that he will diligently and  honestly  administer  the  affairs  of  the
  savings  bank.  Such  oath shall be subscribed by the trustee making it,
  and certified by an officer authorized by law to administer  oaths,  and
  immediately transmitted to the superintendent.
    7.  In  each  year  every  trustee  shall  subscribe and acknowledge a
  declaration that he has not resigned, become ineligible, or in any other
  manner vacated his office as such trustee.  Such  declaration  shall  be
  filed  with  the superintendent on or before the first day of March. The
  superintendent, in his discretion, may extend the time within which such
  declaration may be subscribed and filed.


::: 247:restrictions_upon_trustees_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 247.  Restrictions  upon  trustees  and  officers. 1. A trustee of a
  savings bank shall not
    (a) Have any interest, direct or  indirect,  in  the  profits  of  the
  savings  bank,  but may receive interest upon the amounts contributed by
  him or her to the surplus fund, may make deposits in  the  savings  bank
  and  receive  interest  thereon  and may acquire from the life insurance
  department of the savings bank, or through the savings bank as agent for
  the life insurance department of another savings  bank,  life  insurance
  issued  on  his  or her life, or that of another, in accordance with the
  provisions of article six-A of this chapter and  may  receive  dividends
  thereon. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, an officer of
  a  savings  bank  who  also  serves as a trustee of such institution may
  receive compensation as an officer of such institution, as  approved  by
  the  board  of  trustees,  which  in  whole or in part is based upon the
  financial performance of the institution.
    (b) Become a member of the board of directors of a bank, trust company
  or national bank of which board enough other  trustees  of  the  savings
  bank  are  members  to  constitute  with  him a majority of the board of
  trustees.
    (c) Become a director or trustee of a bank, trust company or  national
  bank  located in this state, operating a special interest department, or
  of a mortgage or title  company  organized  under  the  banking  law  or
  insurance law, if, after election as such director or trustee a majority
  of  the  trustees  of  the savings bank will be directors or trustees of
  such other institutions.
    2. Neither a trustee nor an executive officer of a savings bank shall
    (a) Receive directly or indirectly and retain for his or her  own  use
  any  commission on or benefit from any loan made by the savings bank, or
  any pay or emolument for services rendered  to  any  borrower  from  the
  savings bank in connection with such loan, except as provided in section
  two hundred forty-nine of this article.
    (b) Direct or require a borrower on a mortgage to negotiate any policy
  of  insurance on the mortgaged property through any particular insurance
  broker or brokers, or attempt to  divert  to  any  particular  insurance
  broker  or  brokers  the business of borrowers from the savings bank, or
  refuse to accept any such insurance policy because it was not negotiated
  through a particular insurance broker or brokers.
    (c) Become an indorser, surety, or guarantor,  or  in  any  manner  an
  obligor, for any loan made by the savings bank.
    (d)  For  himself  or  as  agent  or  partner  of another, directly or
  indirectly borrow or use any of the funds of the savings bank or  become
  the owner of real property on which the savings bank holds a mortgage.
    2-a.  Notwithstanding  paragraph (c) or (d) of subdivision two of this
  section an executive officer of a savings  bank  may  borrow  from  such
  savings  bank  or become the owner of real property on which the savings
  bank holds a mortgage if the loan is secured by (a) a first mortgage  or
  is  a cooperative apartment unit loan, which property or apartment is to
  be  occupied  as  the  executive  officer's  primary  residence  and  is
  specifically  approved  in  writing  by  the  board of trustees or (b) a
  deposit maintained by the executive officer with the savings bank.
    2-b. As used in subdivisions two and two-a of this section,  the  term
  "executive officer" shall be defined as set forth in section 22(h)(9)(C)
  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Act  12  U.S.C.  375b(9)(C),  and regulations
  promulgated thereunder, as amended.
    3. A loan to or  a  purchase  by  a  corporation  in  which  he  is  a
  stockholder to the amount of fifteen per centum of the total outstanding
  stock,  or in which he and other trustees of the savings bank hold stock
  to the amount of twenty-five per centum of the total outstanding  stock,
  shall  be  deemed  a  loan  to  or a purchase by such trustee within the
  meaning of this section; except when the loan to  or  purchase  by  such
  corporation  shall  have  occurred  without his knowledge or against his
  protest. A deposit with a banking corporation shall not be deemed a loan
  within the meaning of this section.
    4. This section shall not be construed to prohibit a savings bank from
  making  a  loan  to  a  religious corporation, club, or other membership
  corporation of which one or more trustees of such savings  bank  may  be
  members  or  officers  but in which they have no financial interest, nor
  shall it be construed to prohibit a savings bank from making loans to or
  purchasing guaranteed mortgages from any stock corporation, provided  no
  trustee  owns  more than fifteen per centum of the capital stock of such
  corporation, and the total  amount  of  such  stock  owned  by  all  the
  trustees  of  such  savings  bank is less than twenty-five per centum of
  such capital stock.
    5. (a) No executive officer of a savings  bank  may  be  an  executive
  officer,  director  or  trustee of another savings bank, or of a bank or
  trust company, savings and  loan  association,  national  bank,  federal
  savings  bank  or  federal  savings association, the principal office of
  which institution is located in this  state,  bank  holding  company  or
  foreign  banking  corporation maintaining a branch in this state, unless
  permission therefor has been granted by the superintendent  pursuant  to
  the provisions of paragraph (b) of this subdivision.
    (b) The superintendent shall have the power to determine by regulation
  who shall be considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be
  an  executive  officer,  and  by  regulation,  to grant permission to an
  executive officer of a savings bank to be an executive officer, director
  or trustee or both an executive  officer  and  director  or  trustee  of
  another  savings  bank  or  a  bank  or  trust company, savings and loan
  association, national bank, federal  savings  bank  or  federal  savings
  association,  the  principal  office  of which institution is located in
  this  state,  bank  holding  company  or  foreign  banking   corporation
  maintaining  a branch in this state. Such permission may be granted only
  if in the judgment of the superintendent such service by  the  executive
  officer  will  be consistent with the policy of the state of New York as
  declared in section ten of this chapter. The superintendent  shall  have
  the  power  to revoke such permission whenever the superintendent finds,
  after reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, that the  public
  interest requires such revocation.
    (c)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision, the term "bank holding
  company" shall be given the same meaning as is contained in section  one
  hundred  forty-one  of  this  chapter,  and  the definition of the term,
  "banking institution" is modified to include a  national  bank,  federal
  savings  bank  or  federal  savings association, the principal office of
  which institution is located  in  this  state,  and  a  foreign  banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    (d)  All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this chapter on
  officers and trustees of savings banks shall continue in effect.


::: 248:removal_and_forfeiture_of_office_of_trustee.html
 
    &#167; 248.  Removal  and forfeiture of office of trustee. 1.  Whenever the
  conduct and habits of a trustee  are  of  such  a  character  as  to  be
  injurious to the savings bank, or a trustee has been guilty of acts that
  are  detrimental or hostile to the interests of the savings bank, he may
  be removed from office at any regular meeting of the  trustees,  by  the
  affirmative  vote  of  three-fourths  of  all  the  trustees;  provided,
  however, that a written copy of the charges made against him shall  have
  been  served upon him personally at least two weeks before such meeting,
  that the vote of such trustees shall be entered in  the  record  of  the
  minutes of such meeting, and that such removal shall receive the written
  approval  of  the superintendent, which shall be attached to the minutes
  of such meeting and form a part of the record.
    2. The office of a trustee of  a  savings  bank  shall  become  vacant
  whenever he
    (a)  Shall  fail  to comply with any of the provisions of this article
  relating to his official oath and declaration.
    (b) Shall become disqualified for any of the reasons specified in this
  article.
    (c) Shall have failed to attend the regular meetings of the  board  of
  trustees and also of any committee of the board of which he is a member,
  for  a  period of six successive months, unless excused by the board for
  such failure by resolution  adopted  at  the  first  or  second  regular
  meeting  of  the  board  after  expiration of such six months period and
  entered upon its minutes; provided, however,  that  a  trustee  who  has
  forfeited  or  vacated  his  office  by reason of such failure to attend
  meetings shall not be eligible for re-election until the  expiration  of
  one  year  from  the  date  of the first regular meeting of the board at
  which a resolution could have been adopted by it, as herein provided, to
  excuse such failure. A copy of such resolution shall be  transmitted  to
  the  superintendent  by  the  savings  bank  within  five days after its
  adoption.
    (d) Shall violate any of  the  provisions  of  this  article  imposing
  restrictions upon trustees and officers.
    (e)  Shall  reach  the mandatory retirement age, if any, prescribed in
  the by-laws of the savings bank.
    3. A trustee who has forfeited or vacated  his  office  shall  not  be
  eligible for re-election, except when the forfeiture or vacancy occurred
  solely by reason of his
    (a)  Failure to comply with the provisions of this article relating to
  his official oath and declaration; or
    (b) Failure to attend the regular meetings of the board of trustees or
  neglect of his  official  duties  as  prescribed  in  paragraph  (c)  of
  subdivision two of this section; or
    (c)  Disqualification  through  becoming a non-resident, or becoming a
  trustee, officer or employee of another  savings  bank,  or  becoming  a
  director or trustee of a bank, trust company, national bank, mortgage or
  title company and such disqualification shall have been removed.
    (d)  Resignation  while free of any of the disqualifications specified
  in this article.


::: 249:compensation_of_trustees_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 249.  Compensation  of  trustees  and  officers.  1.  A trustee of a
  savings bank shall  not  directly  or  indirectly  receive  any  pay  or
  emolument  for  any  services  rendered  to  the savings bank, except as
  provided in this section.
    2. A trustee may, by  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  all  the
  trustees, receive reasonable compensation for (a) attendance at meetings
  of the board of trustees; (b) service as an officer of the savings bank,
  provided  his  duties  as  officer  require  and receive his regular and
  faithful attendance at the savings bank; (c) service in appraising  real
  property  for  the  savings  bank;  and  (d)  service  as  a member of a
  committee of the board of trustees.
    3. An attorney for a savings bank, although he be a  trustee  thereof,
  may  receive  a  reasonable  compensation for his professional services,
  including examinations and certificates of title  to  real  property  on
  which  mortgage  loans  are  made by the savings bank; or if the savings
  bank  requires  the  borrowers  to  pay  all   expenses   of   searches,
  examinations   and   certificates   of  title,  including  the  drawing,
  perfecting and recording of papers, such attorney  may  collect  of  the
  borrower  and  retain  for his own use the usual fees for such services,
  excepting any  commissions  as  broker  or  on  account  of  placing  or
  accepting such mortgage loans.


::: 24:investigation_by_superintendent_refusal_or_approval_filing_certificate.html
 
    &#167;  24.  Investigation  by  superintendent; refusal or approval; filing
  certificate. 1. Within ninety days after the date when any  organization
  certificate  or  private  banker's certificate shall have been filed for
  examination, the superintendent, if the superintendent shall find  after
  investigation and examination of what the superintendent deems to be the
  best sources of information available that the character, responsibility
  and  general  fitness of the person or persons named in such certificate
  are such as to command confidence and warrant belief that  the  business
  of  the  proposed  corporation  or  private  banker will be honestly and
  efficiently conducted in accordance with the intent and purpose of  this
  chapter,  and that the public convenience and advantage will be promoted
  by allowing such proposed corporation or private  banker  to  engage  in
  business,  shall  approve  such certificate. An extension of such ninety
  day period may be requested, by a written request executed by a majority
  of the persons from whom the superintendent received  such  organization
  certificate   or  private  banker's  certificate,  for  such  additional
  reasonable period of time as may be required for  applicants  to  comply
  with  conditions  precedent  stipulated by the superintendent as being a
  prerequisite  to  his  or  her  approval.  The  superintendent,  in  the
  superintendent's  sole discretion, shall determine whether to grant such
  an extension.
    2. The superintendent shall also endorse upon each of  the  duplicates
  the  date  of  such  approval.  The superintendent shall forthwith cause
  notice of such approval to be given to  the  proposed  incorporators  or
  private  banker  and one of the duplicate certificates shall be filed in
  the office of the department and the other in the office of the clerk of
  the county in which the principal office of such proposed corporation or
  private banker is to be located. In a case in  which  a  private  banker
  certificate  is  submitted  to  the  superintendent  for  the purpose of
  continuing the business in connection with a change in its  partnership,
  the  superintendent  shall  approve  the private banker certificate upon
  making a determination that the private banker should  be  permitted  to
  continue  its  business  based  upon  the  considerations  set  forth in
  subdivision one of this section.
    3. If the superintendent is not satisfied, upon the considerations set
  forth in subdivision one of this section, that such proposed corporation
  or private banker  should  be  permitted  to  engage  in  business,  the
  superintendent  shall  refuse such certificate and shall endorse thereon
  the date of such refusal  and  return  one  of  the  duplicates  to  the
  proposed  incorporators or private banker from whom such certificate was
  received.
    4. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any  organization
  certificate  required to be filed in the office of the superintendent by
  section one hundred thirty-six,  by  section  two  hundred  sixty-b,  by
  section  four  hundred ten, by section four hundred eleven or by section
  four hundred eighty-six of this chapter.


::: 25-a:authority_of_superintendent_to_file_organization_certificate_and_issue_authorization_certificate_under_certain_conditions.html
 
    * &#167; 25-a. Authority of superintendent to file organization certificate
  and   issue  authorization  certificate  under  certain  conditions.  1.
  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  law  to  the  contrary,  the
  superintendent  is  authorized  to  file  and  approve  the organization
  certificate of a bank or trust company and  to  issue  an  authorization
  certificate  to  such  bank  or  trust  company  in  accordance with the
  provisions of subdivision two of this section.
    2. If the superintendent, after taking possession of the business  and
  property of any banking organization pursuant to section six hundred six
  of this chapter, shall find that it is in the public interest for all or
  a  substantial  part  of  the  business  or  property  of  such  banking
  organization to be acquired by a bank or trust company to  be  organized
  for  such  purpose,  he  may forthwith file and approve the organization
  certificate of, and issue an authorization certificate to, such bank  or
  trust  company  and  in  connection  therewith  may waive any condition,
  requirement or provision of articles two,  three  and  fifteen  of  this
  chapter,  provided,  however, that the superintendent shall be empowered
  to impose such terms and conditions, if any,  on  the  exercise  of  any
  authority  granted  to  any  such  bank  or trust company as he may deem
  appropriate to effectuate the declaration of policy contained in section
  ten of this article.
    * NB Expired March 31, 1982


::: 250:pensions_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 250.  Pensions;  insurance.  Subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe, a savings bank  may,
  in the discretion of a majority of all the trustees:
    1.   Provide   pensions  to  officers  and  employees  pursuant  to  a
  nondiscriminatory plan for service rendered to the savings bank  or  for
  having  become  incapacitated  while  in  service  to  the savings bank,
  including annual supplements to retirees based upon the "current cost of
  living index figure" for any calendar year based upon the Consumer Price
  Index as issued by the bureau of labor statistics of the  United  States
  department of labor.
    2.  Provide  life  insurance  for its officers and employees, provided
  that life insurance is not purchased solely for or on behalf of officers
  and highly compensated employees.


::: 251:meetings_quorum_bylaws_officers.html
 
    &#167; 251. Meetings; quorum; by-laws; officers. 1. Regular meetings of the
  board  of trustees shall be held at least once a month, unless otherwise
  provided by the by-laws. The board of trustees shall hold not less  than
  ten regular monthly meetings per year provided, however, that during any
  three consecutive calendar months, the board shall meet at least twice.
    2.  A  savings  bank may provide in its by-laws the number of trustees
  necessary to constitute a quorum at meetings of its board.  Such  number
  shall not be less than four nor less than one-third of all the trustees.
  In  the  absence  of such a provision, a majority of the total number of
  trustees which a savings bank would have  if  there  were  no  vacancies
  shall  constitute  a  quorum  for  the transaction of business or of any
  specified item of business. Any reference in this chapter  to  corporate
  action  to  be taken by the board shall mean such action at a meeting of
  the board. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the vote  of  a
  majority of the trustees present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is
  present at such time, shall be the act of the board.
    3.  (a)  Unless otherwise provided by the by-laws, regular meetings of
  the board may be held without notice if  the  time  and  place  of  such
  meetings  are fixed by the by-laws or the board. Special meetings of the
  board shall be held upon notice to the trustees.
    (b) The by-laws may prescribe what shall constitute notice of  meeting
  of  the  board.  A  notice,  or  waiver  of notice, need not specify the
  purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board, unless  required
  by the by-laws.
    (c) Notice of a meeting need not be given to any trustee who submits a
  signed  waiver  of  notice  whether  before  or after the meeting or who
  attends  the  meeting  without  protesting,  prior  thereto  or  at  its
  commencement, the lack of notice to him.
    (d)  A  majority  of  the trustees present, whether or not a quorum is
  present, may adjourn any meeting to  another  time  and  place.  If  the
  by-laws  so  provide,  a  notice  of any adjournment of a meeting of the
  board to another time or place shall be given to the trustees  who  were
  not  present  at  the  time of the adjournment and, unless such time and
  place are announced at the meeting, to the other trustees.
    4.  The  board  may  from  time  to  time  make  by-laws,  rules   and
  regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the election and appointment
  of  officers and committees, and for their respective powers and duties;
  for the increase or  reduction  of  the  number  of  trustees;  for  the
  repayment  of deposits, and generally for the transaction and management
  of the affairs of the savings bank. A copy of such by-laws, and  of  any
  amendment  thereto  or  change  therein  shall  be  transmitted  to  the
  superintendent.
    5. The board shall elect or appoint such officers  as  they  may  deem
  proper.  Such  officers  need  not  be trustees. Each officer shall hold
  office for the term for which he is elected or appointed and  until  his
  successor  has  been elected or appointed and qualified. Any two or more
  offices may be held by the same person except the offices  of  president
  and secretary. The trustees may require any officer to give security for
  the  faithful  performance  of  his  duties  and all officers as between
  themselves and the savings bank shall have such  authority  and  perform
  such  duties  in the management of the corporation as may be provided in
  the by-laws or, to the extent not so provided, by the board.
    6. Any officer elected or appointed by the board may be removed by the
  board, or his authority suspended by it, with  or  without  cause.  Such
  removal or suspension without cause, however, shall be without prejudice
  to  his contract rights. The election or appointment of an officer shall
  not be deemed of itself to create contract rights. This subdivision does
  not affect the powers of the superintendent under section  forty-one  of
  this chapter.


::: 252:reports_to_trustees.html
 
    &#167; 252.  Reports  to  trustees.  The board of trustees of every savings
  bank shall designate, by resolution duly recorded  in  the  minutes,  an
  officer or officers whose duty it shall be to prepare and submit to each
  trustee  present at a regular meeting of the board, or to each member of
  an executive committee of not less than  five  members  of  such  board,
  present  at  a  regular  meeting  of such committee, a written report as
  described  in  this  section.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  by   the
  superintendent  by  regulation,  which  regulation  may define the terms
  contained herein and  establish  such  requirements  according  to  size
  and/or  business activities of a savings bank, such report shall include
  all the purchases and sales of securities, made  by  such  savings  bank
  since  the  date  of  the  last  preceding  report made pursuant to this
  section. Unless otherwise provided by the  superintendent,  such  report
  shall  also  contain a statement showing every loan, made or invested in
  by such savings bank, which is outstanding, at the time of such  report,
  in  an  amount  equal  to  or  greater  than  a  reportable  amount,  as
  hereinafter in this section defined, describing the collateral  to  such
  indebtedness  as  of  the  date  of  such report. A copy of such current
  report, verified by the affidavit of the  officer  or  officers  charged
  with  the  duty of preparing and submitting such report, together with a
  list of the trustees present at such meeting, shall be  filed  with  the
  records of the savings bank within one day after such meeting, and shall
  be   presumptive   evidence   of   the   matters   therein  stated.  The
  superintendent,  by  regulation,  may  require   the   preparation   and
  submission  of such a report to trustees at other than regular board and
  committee meetings. For the purposes  of  this  section,  (a)  the  term
  "loan"  shall  mean  the  aggregate  of  all loans to the same borrower,
  except that, with respect to loans secured by real estate, it shall mean
  the aggregate of all loans upon the security of the  same  real  estate;
  (b)  the  term  "borrower"  shall,  with  respect  to any loan, mean the
  individual,  partnership,  unincorporated  association  or   corporation
  primarily  liable  upon  the  loan; and (c) the term "reportable amount"
  shall, at each time of the determination thereof, mean two hundred fifty
  thousand dollars or one per centum of the  net  worth  of  such  savings
  bank,  whichever  is  less;  provided, however, that such term shall not
  include (1) an amount less than one thousand dollars, or (2) the  amount
  of any loan which loan is fully secured by the assignment of one or more
  deposits  in  such  savings bank, or (3) the then amount of a loan which
  loan was outstanding in an equal or greater amount at the  date  of  the
  last preceding report made pursuant to this section.


::: 253:official_communications_from_department_of_financial_services_to_be_submitted_to_trustees_and_noted_in_minutes.html
 
    &#167; 253.  Official  communications from department of financial services
  to be submitted  to  trustees  and  noted  in  minutes.  Every  official
  communication,  as  defined  in  article  two  of this chapter, shall be
  submitted by the officer receiving it to the board of  trustees  at  the
  next meeting of such board, and duly noted in the minutes.


::: 254:examinations_by_trustees.html
 
    &#167; 254.  Examinations  by trustees.  1.  Once in each calendar year the
  trustees of each savings bank by a committee of not less than  three  of
  their  number, none of whom shall be an officer or salaried employee of,
  or an attorney who receives any fee, compensation or any other  form  of
  emolument for legal services rendered to, such savings bank, shall fully
  examine the records and affairs of such savings bank, for the purpose of
  determining its true financial condition. Such examination shall be made
  as  of  a  date  not less than six months after the date of the previous
  such examination. In the conduct of each such examination inquiry  shall
  be  made  into the policies of management for the purpose of determining
  whether such policies are sound and consistent with the requirements  of
  law,  and  into  such  other matters as shall be necessary to enable the
  trustees  to  determine  whether  adequate  protection  is  afforded  to
  depositors.  The  trustees  may  employ  such  assistants  as  they deem
  necessary in making the examination prescribed by  this  section,  other
  than an attorney who receives any fee, compensation or any other form of
  emolument for legal services rendered to such savings bank.
    2.  A savings bank's compliance with section one hundred twelve of the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act of 1991, as implemented by the
  provisions   of   part  three  hundred  sixty-three  of  the  rules  and
  regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as they may be
  amended from time to time, shall be deemed to  satisfy  the  examination
  requirement of this section.
    3.  A  report  of  each  such  examination,  in  such  form  as may be
  prescribed by the superintendent, sworn to by the  trustees  making  the
  same shall, within thirty days after the completion of such examination,
  be  presented to the board of trustees of such savings bank at a regular
  meeting and thereafter filed with the  records  of  such  savings  bank.
  Within  ten  days  after the presentation of such report to the board of
  trustees a duplicate thereof  shall  be  filed  in  the  office  of  the
  superintendent,  together  with  a  certificate  that  such  report  was
  presented to the board of  trustees,  in  the  form  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent.


::: 255-a:publication_and_delivery_of_annual_report.html
 
    &#167; 255-a. Publication and delivery of annual report. Every savings bank
  shall  (1)  prepare  a  complete  statement  of its financial condition,
  including a summary of  income  and  expense  since  its  last  previous
  statement, and publish the same annually, such publication to be made in
  the  form  and manner determined by the superintendent and in accordance
  with the requirements of this section, (2) mail a copy of such financial
  statement to each depositor on application therefor, and (3) make copies
  of such financial statement available to depositors and other persons in
  a convenient and conspicuous location on the premises  of  each  of  its
  authorized places of business.


::: 255:reports_to_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167; 255.  Reports  to superintendent; penalty for failure to make. 1. On
  or before the first day of February in  each  year  every  savings  bank
  shall make a written report to the superintendent, which shall contain a
  statement  of  its  conditions  as  of  the  morning of the first day of
  January of such year. Such report shall contain such information and  be
  in such form as the superintendent may prescribe and shall be subscribed
  by  the  president or a vice-president and another principal officer and
  affirmed by such officers as true under the penalties of perjury.
    2. Every savings bank shall also make such other  special  reports  to
  the superintendent as he may from time to time require, in such form and
  at  such  date  as  may  be prescribed by him and such reports shall, if
  required by him, be subscribed and affirmed as true under the  penalties
  of perjury.
    3.  If  a  savings  bank  shall fail to make any report required by or
  pursuant to this section, on or before the day designated for the making
  thereof, or shall fail to include therein any  information  required  by
  the  superintendent  to  be included, such savings bank shall forfeit to
  the people of the state an amount  as  determined  pursuant  to  section
  forty-four-a  of  this  chapter  for every day that such report shall be
  delayed or withheld, and for every day that it shall fail to report  any
  such  omitted  information,  unless  the  time  therefor shall have been
  extended by the superintendent as provided in this chapter.
    4. No savings bank shall be required  to  make  any  annual  or  other
  report  or  be  subject  to  any  inspection  or  supervision, except as
  provided in this chapter.


::: 256:photographic_reproduction_of_records.html
 
    &#167; 256.   Photographic   reproduction   of   records.  Any  photograph,
  microphotograph or reproduction on film of  any  of  the  documents  and
  records of a savings bank relating to the accounts of its depositors and
  the  operation of its business, which such savings bank has caused to be
  made in the  conduct  of  its  business,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the
  equivalent  of  the original thereof for all purposes, provided that the
  original of any such documents and records has been destroyed, that such
  photograph, microphotograph or reproduction on film shall be of  durable
  material,  and  that  the  device  used  to reproduce such documents and
  records shall be one which accurately reproduces the original thereof in
  all details.


::: 257:duties_of_trustees_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 257. Duties of trustees and officers. 1. Trustees and officers shall
  discharge  the  duties  of  their respective positions in good faith and
  with that degree of diligence, care and skill which  prudent  men  would
  exercise  under  similar circumstances in like positions. In discharging
  their duties, trustees and officers, when acting in good faith, may rely
  (a) upon financial statements of the savings bank represented to them to
  be correct by the president or the officer of the  savings  bank  having
  charge  of  the  books  of  account, or stated in a written report by an
  independent public or  certified  public  accountant  or  firm  of  such
  accountants  fairly  to  reflect the financial condition of such savings
  bank and (b) upon reports required  to  be  submitted  to  them  by  any
  provision of this chapter or prepared in the ordinary course of business
  by  an  officer  or  committee charged with the responsibility therefor.
  Nothing in this section shall be  deemed  to  require  the  trustees  to
  perform  functions  vested  in  any  committee,  officer or other person
  pursuant to the provisions of any other section of this chapter.
    2. An action may be brought against one or more trustees  or  officers
  of a savings bank to procure a judgment for the following relief:
    (a) To compel the defendant to account for his official conduct in the
  following cases:
    (1)  The  neglect of, or failure to perform, or other violation of his
  duties in the management and disposition of the  savings  bank's  assets
  committed to his charge.
    (2)  The  acquisition by himself, transfer to others, loss or waste of
  the savings bank's assets due to any neglect of or failure  to  perform,
  or other violation of his duties.
    (b)  To  set aside a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the savings
  bank's assets by one  or  more  trustees  or  officers,  contrary  to  a
  provision of law, where the transferee knew the purpose of the transfer.
    (c) To enjoin such a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the savings
  bank's  assets by one or more of the trustees or officers where there is
  good reason to apprehend that it will be made.
    3. Subject to section six  hundred  thirty-one  of  this  chapter,  an
  action  may  be  brought  for  the  relief provided in this section by a
  savings bank or an officer, trustee or judgment creditor thereof.
    4. This section shall not affect any liability  otherwise  imposed  by
  law upon any trustee or officer.


::: 258:prohibition_of_unauthorized_savings_banks_and_use_of_the_word_savings_exception_as_to_school_savings.html
 
    &#167; 258.  Prohibition  of unauthorized savings banks and use of the word
  "savings";  exception  as  to  school   savings.   1.   No   individual,
  partnership,  unincorporated  association  or  corporation  other than a
  savings bank, state or federal chartered savings and  loan  association,
  bank,  trust  company,  industrial  bank, private banker, national bank,
  foreign  banking  corporation  licensed  pursuant  to  this  chapter  to
  transact  in  this state the business of receiving deposits or state and
  federal chartered credit unions shall make use of the word  "saving"  or
  "savings"  or  their equivalent in its banking or financial business, or
  use any advertisement containing the  word  "saving"  or  "savings",  or
  their  equivalent  in relation to its banking or financial business, nor
  shall any individual or corporation other than a savings bank in any way
  solicit or receive deposits as a savings bank; but nothing herein  shall
  be  construed  to  prohibit the use of the word "savings" in the name of
  the Savings and Loan Bank of the State of New York or in the name  of  a
  trust company all of the stock of which is owned by not less than twenty
  savings banks. Any bank, trust company, industrial bank, private banker,
  national  bank,  foreign banking corporation, state or federal chartered
  credit unions, individual, partnership,  unincorporated  association  or
  corporation  violating this provision shall forfeit to the people of the
  state for every offense the sum of one hundred  dollars  for  every  day
  such offense shall be continued.
    2.  Any  school in the state of New York may collect from time to time
  amounts of money from the pupils of such school  and  any  philanthropic
  agency  incorporated  for  philanthropic  purposes, if such agency be so
  authorized by certificate of the superintendent of  financial  services,
  may  collect  from  time  to  time amounts of money from the children or
  persons under the direction or guidance of, or the  promotion  of  whose
  welfare  is  an  object  of,  such philanthropic agency. As to each such
  school, such money shall be collected by or under  the  supervision  of,
  the  principal  or  superintendent  of  such  school or by, or under the
  supervision of, any person designated for that purpose by the  board  of
  education or other authority having jurisdiction over such school. As to
  each  such  philanthropic  agency,  such money shall be collected by, or
  under the supervision of, the superintendent or other designated head of
  such agency. All money so  collected  shall,  not  later  than  the  day
  following  the  day  of collection, be deposited in some savings bank in
  the state, be used for the purchase of shares in any  savings  and  loan
  association  organized  under  this law, or under the laws of the United
  States, whose principal office is located in the state of New  York,  or
  be  deposited  in any trust company or state or national bank located in
  the state and having an interest department. All money so collected from
  any person shall be deposited, or used to purchase shares, in his  name;
  provided,  however,  that  if  the principal, superintendent, designated
  person or agency head by whom, or under whose  supervision,  such  money
  was  collected  shall  deem  the amount of money so collected at any one
  time to be insufficient for the opening  of  individual  accounts,  such
  money  shall  be  deposited,  or used to purchase shares, in the name of
  such principal, superintendent, designated person  or  agency  head,  in
  trust,  to  be  by  him  eventually  transferred  to  the  credit of the
  respective persons to whom the same belongs, and pending such  transfer,
  said  principal,  superintendent, designated person or agency head shall
  furnish to the depositary institution or savings  and  loan  association
  receiving  such  money  the  name,  signature, address, age and place of
  birth of each person from whom such money was collected, and such  other
  data  concerning  such  person  as  the  institution  may  require.  Any
  depositary institution or savings and  loan  association  authorized  to
  receive  any  amounts  collected  by a school or philanthropic agency in
  accordance with this subdivision, may, on  the  request  of  any  person
  authorized  by  this subdivision to collect such amounts for such school
  or  philanthropic  agency,  send  a  collector   to   such   school   or
  philanthropic agency to receive and receipt for same. Any certificate of
  authorization  issued to a philanthropic agency by the superintendent of
  financial services in accordance with this subdivision shall specify the
  period for which such authorization is to be effective and the  area  in
  which  collections  may  be  made,  and  may  specify any other terms or
  conditions  upon  which  such  authorization  is   granted.   Any   such
  authorization  may  be  terminated  by  the  superintendent of financial
  services by written notice  served  upon  the  philanthropic  agency  or
  mailed to it at its last known address. As used in this subdivision with
  reference  to  the  placing  of amounts with a depositary institution or
  savings and loan association, the words "the day following  the  day  of
  collection"  shall  mean  the  next day, after the day of collection, on
  which such institution or association is open for business. As  used  in
  this  subdivision,  the  words "philanthropic agency" shall be deemed to
  include, without limitation a corporation,  not  organized  for  profit,
  engaged in promoting the welfare of seamen.
    3.  Money,  deposited pursuant to the provisions of subdivision two of
  this section and held by such banking organizations in the name of  such
  principal,  superintendent, designated person or agency head in a school
  district in a city having a population of more  than  one  million,  and
  under  whose custodial authority said money has remained for a period of
  thirty years may be used by such a school district to establish a  trust
  fund  after  due  and diligent effort by such principal, superintendent,
  designated person, or agency head to locate and notify any such  persons
  entitled  to  receive such property. The income of said trust fund shall
  be used to provide college scholarships  to  disadvantaged  youth  on  a
  competitive  basis  pursuant  to  rules  promulgated  by  the  board  of
  education of said district provided however that such scholarships shall
  not exceed the cost of attendance. Any person  or  persons  entitled  to
  receive  such  property  shall  be  reimbursed  from funds held in trust
  pursuant to this subdivision. A bank shall not be liable as a result  of
  action  taken  under the provisions of this subdivision. Furthermore, no
  banking organization acting on the instructions of or otherwise  dealing
  with  any  such  principal,  superintendent, designated person or agency
  head shall be responsible for determining whether  any  such  person  is
  acting in accordance with this section or is obliged to inquire into the
  validity  or  propriety  of  the actions or instructions executed by any
  such person or is bound to see to the application of any funds.


::: 25:authorization_certificate_when_and_to_whom_issued_contents_filing_and_recording.html
 
    &#167; 25.  Authorization  certificate;  when and to whom issued; contents;
  filing and recording.  1.  If  the  superintendent  shall  find  that  a
  corporation  or  private  banker,  the  certificate  of  which  has been
  approved and filed as provided in section twenty-four of  this  article,
  has  in  good  faith  complied  with  all  the  requirements  of law and
  fulfilled all the conditions precedent to commencing business imposed by
  this chapter, the superintendent shall, within  ninety  days  after  the
  date  of such approval, issue and execute under the official seal of the
  department, in triplicate, an authorization certificate to the person or
  persons named in  such  organization  certificate  or  private  banker's
  certificate.    Notwithstanding   the   preceding   sentence,   if   the
  superintendent determines it  is  consistent  with  the  declaration  of
  policy  contained in section ten of this article, the superintendent may
  extend  the  period  within  which  the  superintendent  may  issue  the
  authorization  certificate  by  (i) an additional ninety days, provided,
  however, that he or she shall have determined  that  such  extension  of
  time  is  needed for raising capital, for fulfilling any other condition
  precedent to the commencement of business or for  satisfying  any  other
  requirement of organization, whether imposed by statute or regulation or
  otherwise,  or  (ii)  such longer period of time as he or she shall deem
  appropriate, provided, however, that he or  she  shall  have  determined
  that  extraordinary  circumstances exist. Such authorization certificate
  shall state that the corporation or private  banker  named  therein  has
  complied  with  the provisions of this chapter and that it is authorized
  to  transact  the  business  specified   therein.   Such   authorization
  certificate  shall  be conclusive evidence that all conditions precedent
  have been fulfilled and that the corporation has been formed under  this
  chapter,  except  in  an  action  or  special  proceeding brought by the
  superintendent or the attorney general. The superintendent  shall  cause
  one  of  the  triplicate authorization certificates to be transmitted to
  the  corporation  or  private  banker  thereby  authorized  to  commence
  business,  another  to be filed in the office of the department, and the
  third to be filed in the county clerk's office in which the organization
  certificate or the private banker's  certificate  has  been  filed.  The
  copies  of  the  authorization  certificate  filed in the offices of the
  superintendent and the county clerk shall be attached to the  copies  of
  the  organization certificate or private banker's certificate previously
  filed and  such  certificates  shall  be  recorded  in  the  records  of
  incorporation therein.
    2.   Any   corporation   which  shall  not  receive  an  authorization
  certificate within the time period provided by subdivision one  of  this
  section shall forfeit its rights and privileges as a corporation and its
  corporate powers shall cease and determine.
    3. Any corporation which shall not commence business within six months
  after  the  date on which its authorization certificate is issued by the
  superintendent shall forfeit its rights and privileges as a  corporation
  and  its  corporate  powers  shall  cease  and determine unless the time
  within which such business may be commenced has  been  extended  by  the
  superintendent.  Upon satisfactory cause being shown, the superintendent
  may grant one or more extensions. Such extension  shall  be  granted  by
  order  executed,  transmitted  and  filed  in the manner provided for an
  authorization certificate in subdivision one of this section.


::: 260-a:amendment_of_organization_certificate_and_bylaws.html
 
    &#167;  260-a.  Amendment  of  organization  certificate  and  by-laws. Any
  proposed change in the organization certificate or the  by-laws  of  any
  savings  bank  shall  be  submitted  to the superintendent and, upon the
  superintendent's  written  approval  thereof,  shall  be  posted  in   a
  conspicuous  place  in  the  office of the savings bank for thirty days.
  Such proposed changes may thereafter be incorporated in the organization
  certificate or the by-laws of the savings bank by being duly adopted  by
  its  trustees. A copy of such change shall be filed in the office of the
  superintendent within thirty days after such adoption.


::: 260-b:conversion_of_a_savings_bank_into_a_savings_and_loan_association.html
 
    &#167; 260-b.  Conversion  of  a  savings  bank  into  a  savings  and loan
  association. 1. Any savings bank may convert itself into a  savings  and
  loan  association  upon  receiving the approval of the superintendent as
  hereinafter provided. A meeting of the board of trustees shall  be  held
  upon  not  less than thirty days' written notice to each trustee, either
  served personally or mailed  to  him  at  his  last  known  address  and
  containing  a  statement of the time, place and purpose of such meeting.
  Proof by affidavit of due service of such notice shall be filed  in  the
  office of the savings bank before or at the time of such meeting.
    2.  At  such  meeting  the  trustees  may,  by  vote  of not less than
  two-thirds of all the members of such board of trustees,  authorize  the
  conversion  of  such  savings  bank  into a savings and loan association
  subject to the approval of the superintendent as hereinafter provided. A
  copy of the minutes of such meeting, verified by the  presiding  officer
  and by the secretary of the meeting, shall be filed in the office of the
  superintendent  within  thirty  days  after  the  date  of  such meeting
  together with a copy of the affidavit of due service of  the  notice  of
  the  meeting,  a  statement  setting  forth the reasons why the trustees
  believe the conversion would be in the best  interests  of  the  savings
  bank,  its  depositors and the public, and such other information as the
  superintendent may require. If the superintendent  determines  that  the
  proposed  conversion would be in the best interests of the savings bank,
  its depositors and the public, he shall so advise the board of  trustees
  of  the  savings  bank  and  deliver to them his written approval of the
  proposed conversion.
    3.  Upon  receiving  the  superintendent's  written  approval  of  the
  proposed  conversion,  there shall be filed with the superintendent, the
  organization certificate required by section three hundred  seventy-five
  of  this  chapter, executed by a majority of the directors, and proposed
  by-laws as  required  by  section  three  hundred  seventy-six  of  this
  chapter.
    4.  When  the  superintendent  shall  have  approved  the organization
  certificate  and  the  proposed  by-laws  and  shall  have  issued   the
  authorization  certificate, provided in article two of this chapter, the
  savings bank shall cease to be a savings bank  and  shall  thereupon  be
  converted  into  a  savings  and loan association, but such savings bank
  shall be deemed to be  continued  for  the  purpose  of  prosecuting  or
  defending  suits  and of enabling it to wind up its affairs as a savings
  bank and to dispose of and convey its property.
    At the time when such conversion becomes effective all the property of
  the savings bank shall  immediately  by  act  of  law  and  without  any
  conveyance  or  transfer  become  the  property  of the savings and loan
  association and the savings and loan association shall  succeed  to  all
  the offices, rights, obligations and relations of the savings bank.


::: 260:charters_of_all_savings_banks_conformed_to_this_article.html
 
    &#167; 260.  Charters  of all savings banks conformed to this article.  The
  powers, privileges and  duties,  and  all  restrictions,  heretofore  or
  hereafter  conferred  or  imposed upon any savings bank by whatever name
  known, by its charter or act  of  incorporation,  are  hereby  abridged,
  enlarged  or  modified,  as  each  particular  case may require, in such
  manner that every such charter or act of incorporation shall be made  to
  conform to the provisions of this article and to such amendments thereof
  as  may  be hereafter made. Every savings bank shall possess the powers,
  rights and privileges, and be subject to the  duties,  restrictions  and
  liabilities,  conferred  and  imposed  by  this article, notwithstanding
  anything to the  contrary  in  their  respective  charters  or  acts  of
  incorporation.


::: 26:licenses_to_foreign_banking_corporations_renewal.html
 
    &#167; 26.  Licenses to foreign banking corporations; renewal. Upon receipt
  of an application in proper form of any foreign banking corporation  for
  leave  to do business in this state under the provisions of article five
  of this chapter, the superintendent, if  he  or  she  shall  find  after
  investigation  and  examination  of  what he or she deems to be the best
  sources of information that the character,  responsibility  and  general
  fitness  of  the person or persons named in such application are such as
  to command confidence and warrant  belief  that  the  business  of  such
  foreign  banking  corporation will be honestly and efficiently conducted
  in accordance with the intent and purpose of this chapter and  that  the
  public  convenience  and  advantage  will  be  promoted by granting such
  foreign banking corporation leave to do business in  this  state,  shall
  execute  and  issue  a license under the official seal of the department
  authorizing such applicant to  carry  on  such  business  at  the  place
  designated  in the license. Such license shall be executed in triplicate
  and the superintendent shall cause one copy to  be  transmitted  to  the
  applicant,  another  to be filed in the office of the department and the
  third to be filed in the office of the clerk of the county in which  the
  place  of  business  designated  in  such  license is located. A license
  issued to such foreign banking  corporation  pursuant  to  this  section
  shall remain in full force and effect until surrendered or revoked.


::: 27:exchange_and_examination_of_securities.html
 
    &#167; 27.  Exchange  and  examination  of  securities. 1. Any corporation,
  unincorporated association, partnership or individual which  shall  have
  deposited  with  the  superintendent  in  trust  any  stocks or bonds in
  pursuance of any requirement of this chapter, may be  permitted  by  the
  superintendent,  so  long  as it shall continue business in the ordinary
  course, from time to time to withdraw any of such stocks or  bonds  upon
  depositing  with the superintendent other stocks or bonds of the kind it
  is required by this chapter to deposit with him and if the value of  the
  stocks  or  bonds  so  held  by  the  superintendent  exceeds the amount
  required by this chapter to be so deposited,  the  stocks  or  bonds  in
  excess  of  such  amount  may  be withdrawn without depositing others in
  exchange therefor.
    2. Any such corporation, unincorporated  association,  partnership  or
  individual may, at any time during ordinary business hours, examine such
  stocks  or  bonds  and  compare them with the record on the books of the
  department. Unless it shall deliver to the superintendent at least  once
  in  each calendar year, a statement listing such stocks or bonds and the
  amounts thereof, and stating that they are in the custody and possession
  of  the  superintendent  at  the  date  of  the  statement,  the   state
  comptroller  and  the  superintendent  shall  appoint  some suitable and
  discreet  person  as  agent   for   such   corporation,   unincorporated
  association, partnership or individual, who shall make an examination of
  such  stocks or bonds. If such agent finds that the stocks or bonds held
  by the superintendent agree with the records thereof on the books of the
  department, he shall execute a statement in the form above described and
  transmit a copy thereof to the corporation, unincorporated  association,
  partnership  or  individual  in  behalf  of  which  it is made, and such
  statement shall have the same force and effect as if  executed  by  such
  corporation,  unincorporated  association,  partnership  or  individual.
  Compensation for the services and expenses of such agent in making  such
  examination shall be paid as a general expense of the department.


::: 28-a:temporary_change_of_location_approval_or_refusal_certificate.html
 
    &#167;   28-a.   Temporary   change   of  location;  approval  or  refusal;
  certificate.  Notwithstanding any provisions of law limiting the  number
  of  offices which may be maintained thereby, any banking organization or
  foreign banking corporation  may  make  a  written  application  to  the
  superintendent  for  a  temporary  change  of location of its authorized
  place or one of its authorized places of business or a  portion  thereof
  to  another place within the state which shall be as near as practicable
  to such authorized  place  of  business.  At  the  time  of  making  the
  application  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed  pursuant to section
  eighteen-a of this article shall be paid to the superintendent for  each
  temporary  location  for which leave to open is sought, except where (1)
  the applicant would not be required to pay an investigation fee upon the
  filing of an application for a change of location  under  provisions  of
  this  chapter  other  than  this  section,  or  (2)  said application is
  necessitated by damage or  destruction  caused  by  flood,  tidal  wave,
  earthquake,  conflagration,  tornado,  hurricane,  cyclone, windstorm or
  other  storm  or  such  other  event  as  shall  have  been  declared  a
  catastrophe  by  the superintendent. If there is no reasonable objection
  to such change, and if the superintendent  finds  that  such  change  is
  necessary   or  desirable  during  a  period  of  construction,  repair,
  alteration, improvement, or reconstruction of the previously  authorized
  place  of business, he or she shall issue a certificate under his or her
  hand and the official seal  of  the  department  authorizing  each  such
  change  and  specifying  (a)  the  period  during  which  such temporary
  location may be maintained, (b) the date on or after which  such  change
  may  be  made,  and  (c)  the powers which may be exercised thereat. The
  superintendent shall cause  the  original  of  such  certificate  to  be
  transmitted  to  the  applicant, a copy to be filed in the office of the
  department and a copy to be filed in the office  of  the  clerk  of  the
  county in which the principal office of the applicant is located. If the
  superintendent  shall  be  satisfied  in  any  case  that  a  change  is
  undesirable or inexpedient, he or she shall refuse such application  and
  notify  the  applicant of his or her determination. A temporary place of
  business occupied pursuant to the provisions of this  section  shall  be
  closed  as  soon  as  practicable,  and  in no event later than the date
  specified in its authorization certificate,  unless  the  superintendent
  shall  have  extended such time. The banking organization or corporation
  shall notify the superintendent in writing prior to such closing  as  to
  the date it intends to close the temporary place of business.


::: 28-b:credit_needs_of_local_communities.html
 
    &#167; 28-b. Credit needs of local communities. 1. Each banking institution
  as  defined  in  subdivision four of this section to which the Community
  Reinvestment Act of 1977, United States P.L. 95-128, applies shall  file
  with  the  superintendent a copy of each report and document which it is
  required to prepare for or  file  with  one  or  more  federal  agencies
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of that law and the rules and regulations
  promulgated thereunder. Where  a  banking  institution  has  filed  such
  reports  or  documents with the superintendent, an update of the reports
  or documents shall be required at such time as the  banking  institution
  requests  the  superintendent  to  take any action on any application to
  which the provisions of subdivision three of this section apply.
    3. (a) When taking any action on an application or notice  made  by  a
  banking  institution  under  (i)  section  one hundred five, two hundred
  twenty-four, two hundred forty, or  three  hundred  ninety-six  of  this
  chapter for a branch office, (ii) section one hundred ninety-one of this
  chapter  for  a  public  accommodation office, (iii) section six hundred
  one-b of this chapter for approval of a merger or purchase of assets, or
  (iv) under section one hundred five-a,  two  hundred  forty-a  or  three
  hundred  ninety-six-a  of this chapter for the use or installation of an
  automated teller machine, point-of-sale terminal or  similar  electronic
  facility   or   on   any  other  application  or  notice  to  which  the
  superintendent of financial services shall by rule  or  regulation  make
  applicable the provisions of this section, the superintendent shall take
  into  account,  among  other  factors, an assessment, in writing, of the
  record of performance of the banking institution in helping to meet  the
  credit  needs of its entire community, including low and moderate-income
  neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operation of  the  banking
  institution.  Such  assessment  and  any written communications from the
  department of financial services to a banking  institution  relating  to
  such  assessment  shall  be  made  available to the public upon request,
  provided that nothing contained in this subdivision shall be  deemed  to
  alter,  amend  or  affect  the  provisions of subdivision ten of section
  thirty-six of this chapter. In making such assessment the superintendent
  shall review all reports and documents filed pursuant to subdivision one
  of this section  and  any  signed,  written  comments  received  by  the
  superintendent  which  specifically  relate to the banking institution's
  performance in helping to meet the credit needs  of  its  community.  In
  addition,  the  superintendent  shall  consider the following factors in
  assessing a banking institution's record of performance:
    (1) Activities conducted  by  the  banking  institution  to  ascertain
  credit  needs  of  its  community,  including  the extent of the banking
  institution's efforts to  communicate  with  members  of  its  community
  regarding the credit services being provided by the banking institution;
    (2)  The  extent  of  the  banking institution's marketing and special
  credit-related programs to make members of the community  aware  of  the
  credit services offered by the banking institution;
    (3)  The extent of participation by the banking institution's board of
  directors or board of trustees in formulating the banking  institution's
  policies  and  reviewing its performance with respect to the purposes of
  the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977;
    (4) Any practices intended to  discourage  application  for  types  of
  credit set forth in the banking institution's Community Reinvestment Act
  Statement(s);
    (5)  The  geographic  distribution of the banking institution's credit
  extensions, credit applications and credit denials;
    (6) Evidence of prohibited  discriminatory  or  other  illegal  credit
  practices;
    (7)  The  banking  institution's record of opening and closing offices
  and providing services at offices;
    (8) The banking institution's participation, including investments, in
  local community development and redevelopment projects or programs;
    (9)  The  banking  institution's  origination  of residential mortgage
  loans, housing rehabilitation loans, home improvement  loans  and  small
  business  or  small  farm  loans within its community or the purchase of
  such loans originated in its community;
    (10)     The     banking      institution's      participation      in
  governmentally-insured,  guaranteed  or  subsidized  loan  programs  for
  housing, small businesses or small farms;
    (11) The banking  institution's  ability  to  meet  various  community
  credit  needs based on its financial condition, size, legal impediments,
  local economic condition and other factors;
    (11-a) The geographic distribution, availability and use of  automated
  teller  machines,  point-of-sale  terminals,  personal computer banking,
  debit cards or  similar  electronic  facilities  or  services;  and  any
  training  of  customers  thereon  among  every  branch  of  the  banking
  institution, if the institution offers  such  services  to  any  of  its
  customers; and
    (12)  Other  factors  that,  in  the  judgment  of the superintendent,
  reasonably bear upon the  extent  to  which  a  banking  institution  is
  helping  to  meet  the  credit needs of its entire community, including,
  without limitation, the banking institution's  participation  in  credit
  counseling services.
    (b)  In  assessing  the record of performance of a banking institution
  pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)  of  this  subdivision,  the
  superintendent  may,  where  he or she deems it appropriate, provide for
  public  hearings  when  an  objection  to  the   banking   institution's
  application or notification has been submitted.
    (c)  An  assessment  of  a banking institution's record of performance
  under paragraph (a) of this subdivision may be the basis for denying  an
  application or notice under the provisions of this section.
    (d)  When  taking  any  action  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this
  subdivision, the superintendent shall  request  from  the  applicant  or
  notificant  banking  institution  and  from the appropriate federal bank
  regulatory authorities any documents, other than those  required  to  be
  filed  with  the  superintendent  by this section or by other applicable
  statutes or regulations, which are  (1)  filed  with  the  federal  bank
  regulatory  authorities  in connection with the application or notice or
  (2) produced by the  applicant  or  notificant  banking  institution  or
  others in connection with the application or notice.
    4. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or other law to
  the  contrary,  the  term  banking institution when used in this section
  shall mean and  include  all  banks,  trust  companies,  savings  banks,
  savings  and  loan  associations,  credit  unions  and  foreign  banking
  corporations incorporated, chartered, organized or  licensed  under  the
  laws  of  this  state.  In  the  case  of  a foreign banking corporation
  licensed pursuant to this article  and  maintaining  a  branch  in  this
  state,  the  management of the branch shall establish a committee of not
  fewer than three officers  to  function  in  the  role  of  a  board  of
  directors for purposes of this section.
    5. The superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered to promulgate
  rules  and  regulations  effectuating  the  provisions  of this section,
  including any rules and regulations providing  that  the  assessment  of
  banking  institutions  referred  to in subdivision three of this section
  shall be made on a graduated numerical basis.
    6. If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision  or  part  of  this
  section  or the application thereof to any person, firm, or corporation,
  or circumstance shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction
  to be invalid or  unconstitutional,  such  judgment  shall  not  affect,
  impair or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined (i) in
  its  operation  to the clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part
  of this section or (ii) in  its  application  to  the  person,  firm  or
  corporation,  or  circumstance,  directly involved in the controversy in
  which such judgment shall have been rendered.


::: 28-c:branch_office_closings_report_to_and_action_by_the_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 28-c.   Branch   office  closings;  report  to  and  action  by  the
  superintendent.  1.  This   section   is   intended   to   provide   the
  superintendent  with detailed information concerning the planned closing
  of  branch  offices  by  state-chartered  banking   organizations,   the
  availability  of  alternative financial services within the general area
  served by such  branch  and  the  economic  impact  upon  the  community
  resulting  from  such  closing,  and  to provide the superintendent with
  authority to conduct meetings with banking organizations  and  community
  groups  in  areas where a branch closing is planned. The requirements of
  this section shall not apply to the following:
    (a) branch offices located outside the state of New York;
    (b) a sale or other transfer of a branch office which does not  result
  in  any  material  reduction  in  the financial services offered at such
  location;
    (c) the closing of a branch office acquired from a failing  or  failed
  institution, provided that such closing occurs within one hundred eighty
  days from the date of the acquisition; or
    (d)  the closing of a branch office when unexpected circumstances make
  strict compliance impossible, provided that such determination shall  be
  solely  within the discretion of the superintendent and provided further
  that the superintendent may require the banking organization  to  comply
  with the requirements of this section to the extent possible.
    2.  Every  banking  organization  shall submit to the superintendent a
  report of its planned or intended closing of a branch office, and  shall
  give  written  notice  to  any  person  who  maintains a banking account
  relationship with such branch  office  which  is  the  subject  of  such
  planned  or intended closing, no less than ninety days nor more than one
  hundred eighty days prior to the date of  actual  closing.  The  banking
  organization shall post and keep posted in a conspicuous place notice of
  such  planned  closing at such branch office, commencing on the date the
  banking organization  submits  its  report  pursuant  to  the  foregoing
  provision and until the proposed closing is effected or withdrawn.
    3.  Such  report  shall be in writing and shall contain a statement of
  the reasons leading  to  the  decision  to  close  the  branch  and  any
  statistical  or  other information in support thereof. Such report shall
  be and remain at all times subject to the provisions of subdivision  ten
  of  section  thirty-six  of this chapter. Such report shall also contain
  the following information, provided that the superintendent may waive or
  modify these requirements for good cause:
    (a) a past (at least three years),  present  and  projected  financial
  analysis  of  deposits  at  such  branch  (giving number of accounts and
  dollar amount, profits and losses);
    (b) a past (at least three years),  present  and  projected  financial
  analysis  of  profits  and  losses relating to the loan activity at such
  branch;
    (c) a detailed map of the general area served by such  branch  showing
  the distance and direction of all remaining state or federally chartered
  institutions  within  such area and any licensee of the department which
  provides financial services of any kind; and
    (d) a description of any  planned  limited  or  full  service  banking
  facility  to  be opened within such area by either the reporting banking
  organization or, if known, to the reporting banking organization, by any
  other banking institution.
    4. The superintendent shall make a finding as to whether  or  not  the
  proposed  branch  closing  will  result  in  a  significant reduction of
  financial services in the community to be affected. Such  finding  shall
  be  made  public.  If  the superintendent finds that the availability of
  financial services in a particular geographic area or community will  be
  significantly  reduced  by the closing of a particular branch office, he
  or she shall  conduct  such  meetings  with  banking  organizations  and
  community  leaders  as are necessary, in his or her judgment, to explore
  the  feasibility  of  replacing  such branch with other adequate banking
  facilities.
    5. In this section:
    (a) "banking organization" includes each bank, trust company,  savings
  bank,  and  savings  and  loan association as those terms are defined in
  section two of this chapter and each out-of-state state bank  authorized
  to  operate  and  maintain  a  branch pursuant to article five-C of this
  chapter;
    (b)  "branch  office",  "branch",  or  "office"  shall   not   include
  electronic   facilities   as   defined  by  general  regulation  of  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services,  but  shall  include  a  public
  accommodation office;
    (c)  "financial  services"  includes demand and time deposit accounts,
  check cashing services, deposit and  withdrawal  transactions,  sale  of
  bank   or   travellers   checks   and   money  orders,  processing  loan
  applications, acceptance of loan repayments, and any  related  services;
  and
    (d)  "facility"  and  "facilities"  includes  any building, structure,
  vehicle, unit, machine, or device, permanent  or  temporary,  mobile  or
  stationary,  which  provides or dispenses financial services of any kind
  or description.
    6. No provision of this section or  any  rule  or  regulation  adopted
  pursuant  thereto  shall be deemed or construed as impairing the ability
  of any banking organization to close any branch office  after  complying
  with the provisions of subdivision two of this section.


::: 282:creation_of_fund.html
 
    &#167; 282.  Creation  of  fund.  Any  seventy-five  or  more savings banks
  organized under the laws  of  the  state  of  New  York  whose  deposits
  aggregate  not less than fifty per cent of the total deposit liabilities
  of all the savings banks in the  state,  may  enter  into  an  agreement
  (hereinafter  called  the  agreement)  subject  to  the  approval of the
  superintendent of financial  services  to  create  a  fund  (hereinafter
  called  the  fund) and from time to time make such contributions to such
  fund as the said agreement may provide for, for the purpose of  insuring
  deposits  and/or otherwise protecting the interests of depositors in the
  banks (hereinafter referred to as member banks) which become parties  to
  the  said agreement. Once this agreement has become effective, if at any
  subsequent time there should be  fewer  member  banks  than  the  number
  required  to  create the fund, the remaining member banks are authorized
  to continue the fund.


::: 283:management_of_fund.html
 
    &#167; 283.  Management  of  fund.  The  fund  shall  be  collected,  held,
  administered and disbursed by a corporate trustee or a board of trustees
  composed of individuals who are trustees of mutual savings banks, either
  of which shall be approved by the superintendent of financial  services,
  which corporate trustee or board of trustees are hereinafter referred to
  as  the trustee. In the event there be a board of individual trustees, a
  majority of them at any time in office shall constitute  a  quorum,  and
  the  vote  of  a  majority at any meeting, provided a quorum be present,
  shall be determinative and any action  taken  pursuant  thereto  be  the
  action of the trustee.


::: 284:agreement_filing_and_provisions_thereof.html
 
    &#167; 284.  Agreement;  filing  and provisions thereof. The agreement when
  approved by the superintendent of financial services shall  be  executed
  by  the  savings  banks  parties  thereto  and  filed in his office. The
  agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,  all  of  which
  taken  together  shall constitute the original. The agreement shall name
  the  trustee  and  contain  suitable  provisions  for  the  removal   or
  resignation  of  the  trustee,  or  if  the  trustee named be a board of
  trustees, for the removal or resignation of any or all of them, and  for
  the  appointment  of a successor trustee or for the filling of vacancies
  in such  board  of  trustees,  whether  caused  by  death,  resignation,
  disqualification  or  removal;  it  shall also provide the amount of the
  initial contributions to the fund and the manner  of  making  subsequent
  calls,  and  may  contain such limitations thereon as the superintendent
  shall approve, but all  such  initial  contributions  to  the  fund  and
  payments  pursuant  to  further  calls  shall be made ratably by all the
  member banks in proportion to their several deposit liabilities,  except
  that  the  superintendent of financial services may exempt from any such
  call in whole or in part any member bank or banks the condition of which
  makes such exemption in his opinion desirable; it may also  provide  for
  the  liquidation  of the fund pursuant to rules and regulations for that
  purpose acceptable to the superintendent of financial services, provided
  that on any such liquidation the liabilities incurred or assumed by  the
  trustee  pursuant  to  the provisions hereof shall first be paid and the
  balance, if  any,  be  distributed  among  the  member  banks  pro  rata
  according  to  their  contributions;  and  the  agreement  may similarly
  provide for the change or amendment thereof with  the  approval  of  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  and  with  such approval may be
  amended in such manner as may be provided  therein;  and  the  agreement
  shall also define the powers of the trustee, which may be all or any one
  or  more  or  the  powers  hereinafter  set  forth,  together  with  any
  additional powers not inconsistent with the powers herein enumerated  or
  with the purposes of the fund, set forth in the agreement.


::: 285:powers_which_may_be_granted_to_trustee.html
 
    &#167; 285.  Powers  which  may  be granted to trustee. In addition to such
  other powers as may be set  forth  in  the  agreement  not  inconsistent
  herewith  or  with the purposes of the fund, the trustee shall have such
  of the following powers as the agreement may provide:
    1. To insure in whole or in part the deposits in member banks, subject
  to such terms and conditions as the agreement may provide.
    2. To buy any assets owned by  any  member  bank  at  the  book  value
  thereof  notwithstanding such value may exceed the market value thereof,
  or such other value as the trustee may elect either with or  without  an
  agreement  providing  for  the  repurchase  of the same at such price or
  value and at such time and subject to such conditions as may  be  agreed
  upon  by  the trustee in its discretion and to make loans or advances to
  any member bank upon such terms and conditions as may seem desirable and
  with such security as the trustee may determine or without security;  in
  any  agreement  of  repurchase  or repayment it may be provided that the
  savings bank receiving such loan or  advance  or  making  such  sale  of
  assets  may not be obligated to repay the same or repurchase such assets
  until the superintendent of financial services shall certify  that  such
  savings bank is in a safe and sound condition to make such repurchase or
  repayment.
    3.  To  deposit  all  or  any  part  of any moneys in said fund in any
  savings bank or savings banks and such savings bank or savings banks may
  receive the same notwithstanding the provisions of section  two  hundred
  thirty-seven  of  this  act  and/or  in  any  one or more banks or trust
  companies organized under the laws of the state of New York selected  by
  the  trustee  with the approval of the superintendent, and such deposits
  in case of suspension or liquidation of any such depositary other than a
  savings bank shall have the same priority as deposits of  savings  banks
  pursuant to law. In the event of the liquidation of a savings bank which
  is  such depositary, such deposits shall be subordinate to the claims of
  the depositors in such bank but prior to all other claims  except  those
  of the state of New York or of the United States.
    4. In addition to any other uses authorized herein and provided in the
  agreement,  to  invest  and  reinvest  the  fund  in such securities and
  property as are legal for investment by savings banks subject  to  those
  limitations applicable to such investments in the case of savings banks.
    5.  To  make contributions to the surplus fund of any member bank upon
  such terms and conditions for the use  and  the  repayment  thereof  and
  evidenced in such manner as the superintendent of financial services may
  approve, and such savings bank may make such repayment as such agreement
  may provide notwithstanding any provisions of law; but no such agreement
  shall  require  such  repayment  except  if, as and when the surplus and
  surplus fund of such savings bank shall be not less than five per centum
  of the amount due its depositors nor shall any  such  agreement  require
  any  payment  on  account  of  such contribution in such an amount as to
  reduce the surplus and surplus fund of such savings bank below five  per
  centum  of the amount owed its depositors. The agreement may provide the
  manner in which the surplus and surplus fund shall be computed  for  the
  purpose  of  this subdivision. Such contributions shall not constitute a
  liability of such member bank except as herein provided.
    6. If  it  shall  appear  by  certificate  of  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services  filed  in his office, that any member bank to which
  the trustee with the approval of the superintendent has made any loan or
  advance, or to the surplus fund of which it has made a contribution,  or
  from  which  the trustee has purchased any asset at a price in excess of
  the market value thereof, would but for such loan, advance, contribution
  or purchase be in such condition  that  the  superintendent  might  take
  possession  of the business and property of the same pursuant to law, or
  that any such member bank to which the trustee with the approval of  the
  superintendent  has  made any loan or advance, or to the surplus fund of
  which it has  made  a  contribution,  or  from  which  the  trustee  has
  purchased any asset at a price in excess of the market value thereof, or
  the  deposits in which have been insured by the fund in whole or in part
  shall have committed such an act  or  is  in  such  condition  that  the
  superintendent might take possession of the business and property of the
  same  pursuant to law, the trustee shall have the right if it so elects,
  and in such case the superintendent, on such conditions and  subject  to
  such  rules  and  regulations  as  he  shall prescribe, shall permit the
  trustee to take possession and control forthwith  of  the  property  and
  business of such bank and operate and/or liquidate the same. The trustee
  may, while carrying on such business, pay to such bank out of the moneys
  in  or available to the fund such sums as the agreement may authorize as
  the trustee deems necessary for the protection of the bank's depositors.
    7. At  any  time  after  the  trustee  has  taken  over  the  control,
  possession and operation of any savings bank, as provided in subdivision
  six  hereof,  it may, with the approval of the superintendent, turn back
  the control, possession and operation thereof to  such  bank  which  may
  continue  or resume business, provided the moneys advanced from the fund
  have been repaid or satisfactory arrangements  made  for  the  repayment
  thereof  and  the superintendent has certified such bank to be in a safe
  and sound condition or upon such  other  conditions  authorized  in  the
  agreement as may seem proper to the trustee.
    8.  The  trustee, with the approval of the superintendent of financial
  services may at any time after it has taken over the control, possession
  and operation of any bank under subdivision six hereof  discontinue  the
  business  of such bank and proceed to liquidate its affairs. The trustee
  may use the assets in the fund to pay to  the  depositors  of  any  such
  savings  bank  out  of moneys in or available to the fund the excess, if
  any, or such portion thereof as the agreement may provide, of  the  full
  amount of their respective deposits over the dividends received therefor
  on such liquidation.
    9.  To  carry out the provisions aforesaid, the trustee shall have and
  may exercise all the rights, powers, privileges and  franchises  of  any
  savings bank taken over by it, and at any time, with the approval of the
  superintendent  of  financial  services, to suspend the authority of the
  trustees of any savings bank and exercise the powers and duties of  such
  trustees,  and  in  addition  to  the  foregoing,  in the event it shall
  operate and/or liquidate any such savings bank it  shall  have  and  may
  exercise  all  of  the  rights  and  powers  which the superintendent of
  financial services would have pursuant to law  in  connection  with  the
  operation  and/or  liquidation  of  such bank and be subject to the same
  duties and supervision. The trustee, or any duly authorized agent of the
  trustee, in connection with the operation and/or liquidation of any such
  bank may execute, acknowledge and deliver in the name of such bank,  and
  under  its  seal,  or  may authorize any officer or officers of any such
  bank to execute, acknowledge and deliver in the name of  such  bank  and
  under  its  seal  any  instrument affecting or relating to the property,
  business or affairs of such bank, and in the event any such  officer  is
  so  authorized  by  the  trustee, such authorization shall be deemed the
  authorization of the board of trustees of such bank and he may swear  or
  affirm  the  usual  certificate  of acknowledgment to the effect that he
  executed the same and such seal was affixed  by  the  authority  of  the
  board  of  trustees  thereof.  Any  instrument  executed  in  any manner
  provided herein shall be valid and effectual for all purposes.
    10. To borrow money for the purpose of the fund and pledge any  assets
  in  the fund as security for such loans, and in connection therewith may
  rehypothecate any securities or collateral pledged to it by any  savings
  bank.
    11.  To  collect,  or  enforce  by legal proceedings if necessary, the
  contributions for which each member  bank  is  liable  pursuant  to  the
  provisions  of  the agreement, or any debt or obligation due to the fund
  or mortgage or lien held by the fund.


::: 286:taxation_and_exemption_of_property_held_in_fund_exemption_of_mortgages_from_mortgage_recording_tax.html
 
    &#167; 286.  Taxation  and exemption of property held in fund; exemption of
  mortgages from mortgage recording tax. The fund and the  income  thereof
  shall  be exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed by the state
  of New York or  by  any  county,  municipality  or  local  authority  or
  subdivision,  except that any real property constituting an asset of the
  fund shall be subject to city, county, municipal or  local  taxation  to
  the same extent according to its value as other similar real property is
  taxed. Mortgages executed by the fund and/or its trustee shall be exempt
  from  the  mortgage recording taxes imposed by article eleven of the tax
  law.


::: 287:member_savings_banks.html
 
    &#167; 287.  Member  savings  banks.  Any  savings bank incorporated in the
  state of New York may become a member of the fund  upon  the  terms  and
  conditions  set  forth  in  the  agreement  by  executing  the agreement
  authorized by this article, or a counterpart thereof.


::: 288:contributions_as_assets.html
 
    &#167; 288.   Contributions  as  assets.  All  contributions  and  payments
  pursuant to call paid into the fund by any member savings  bank  may  be
  carried by it as an asset to the extent authorized by the superintendent
  of financial services.


::: 289-a:immunity_of_trustee_and_member_savings_banks.html
 
    &#167; 289-a.  Immunity  of  trustee  and member savings banks. The trustee
  shall in no event be  individually  liable  for  anything  done  or  any
  liability  incurred  or assumed by virtue hereof, and any such liability
  shall be collectible only out of the fund, nor shall any member bank  be
  subject  to  any  liability  except  for its unpaid contributions to the
  fund.


::: 289-b:construction.html
 
    &#167; 289-b.  Construction.  The  provisions  of  this  article  shall  be
  liberally construed with a view to the protection of the  depositors  of
  savings banks.


::: 289:confirmation_of_powers.html
 
    &#167; 289.  Confirmation  of  powers.  Any  savings  bank  shall  have the
  authority to do and permit to be done any of the  acts  and  things  and
  make any of the payments and contributions herein authorized.


::: 28:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office_approval_or_refusal_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 28.  Change  of location; change of designation of principal office;
  approval or refusal; certificate. Upon receipt by the superintendent  of
  a  written  application  in proper form from any banking organization or
  foreign corporation for leave to change its place or one of  its  places
  of  business to another place or from any banking organization for leave
  to change the designation of its principal office to a branch office and
  to change the designation of one of its branch offices to its  principal
  office,  the  superintendent shall, if he or she shall be satisfied that
  such change may be permitted under the terms of this  chapter  and  that
  there  is  no  reasonable  objection to such change, execute and issue a
  certificate under the official seal of the department  authorizing  such
  change  and  specifying  the  date  on or after which such change may be
  made, and shall cause the original of such certificate to be transmitted
  to the applicant, a copy to be filed in the office of the department and
  a copy to be filed in the office of the clerk of the county in which the
  principal office of the applicant  is  located,  provided  that  if  the
  proposed  principal  office  is in a different county than the county in
  which the principal office is located at the time of the filing  of  the
  application,  the  superintendent  shall cause copies to be filed in the
  offices of the clerks of both counties. If the superintendent  shall  be
  satisfied in any case that such change is undesirable or inexpedient, he
  or  she  shall  refuse such application and notify the applicant of such
  determination.


::: 290:authorization_of_the_formation_of_mutual_holding_companies.html
 
    &#167; 290.  Authorization of the formation of mutual holding companies. 1.
  Notwithstanding any other provision  of  law,  and  in  accordance  with
  general regulations which the superintendent of financial services shall
  promulgate to facilitate such reorganizations, a mutual savings bank may
  reorganize  so  as  to  cause  its  deposit-taking and one or more other
  activities to be conducted by a  stock  savings  bank  subsidiary  of  a
  mutual  holding  company  formed for such purpose, upon the payment of a
  fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.
    2. Except to the extent that such  provisions  are  inconsistent  with
  this  article,  the  stock savings bank subsidiary of the mutual holding
  company shall be subject to the same provisions of this chapter as apply
  to savings banks which have converted to stock form pursuant to sections
  fourteen-e and nine thousand nineteen of this chapter.


::: 291:required_approvals.html
 
    &#167; 291.  Required  approvals.  1.  A reorganization of a mutual savings
  bank pursuant to this article shall be approved by  a  majority  of  the
  board of trustees of the mutual savings bank.
    2.  (a)  A  mutual savings bank proposing a reorganization pursuant to
  this article shall provide the superintendent  with  written  notice  of
  such  proposed  reorganization.  Such notice shall include a copy of the
  plan of reorganization approved by the board  of  trustees  pursuant  to
  subdivision  one  of this section, the proposed organization certificate
  for the mutual holding company and the stock savings bank subsidiary and
  shall  contain  such  other  information  as  the  superintendent  shall
  require.  The  superintendent  shall  approve  or disapprove the plan of
  reorganization within sixty days of the submission of such plan together
  with such other information as the superintendent shall require.
    (b) In determining whether to approve the plan of reorganization,  the
  superintendent shall consider:
    (i)  whether  the formation of the mutual holding company would not be
  detrimental to the interests of the depositors  of  the  mutual  savings
  bank  proposing  to reorganize as provided in section two hundred ninety
  of this article;
    (ii) whether disapproval is necessary to  prevent  unsafe  or  unsound
  banking practices;
    (iii)  whether  the  interest  of  the  public  will  be served by the
  proposed reorganization;
    (iv) whether the financial  or  management  resources  of  the  mutual
  savings  bank proposing to reorganize as provided in section two hundred
  ninety of this article warrant  disapproval  of  the  proposed  plan  of
  reorganization; and
    (v)  whether  the  mutual  savings  bank  proposing  to  reorganize as
  provided in section two hundred ninety of this article fails to  furnish
  any  information  required  under  paragraph  (a) of this subdivision or
  furnishes information containing any statement which, at the time and in
  the circumstances under which it was made, was false or misleading  with
  respect  to  any  material  fact  or  omits  to  state any material fact
  necessary to make the statements therein not false or misleading.
    (c) When the  superintendent  shall  have  determined  to  approve  or
  disapprove  the  plan  of  reorganization,  the  superintendent shall so
  advise the mutual savings bank in writing and shall endorse approval  on
  an  organization  certificate  and cause it to be filed in the office of
  the superintendent and with  the  clerk  of  the  county  in  which  the
  principal  office of the mutual savings bank is located. Upon the filing
  of the organization certificate the  existence  of  the  mutual  holding
  company  shall commence. As used in this article, the term "organization
  certificate" shall include an amended organization certificate.
    3. If approved by the superintendent, the mutual  savings  bank  shall
  submit  the  plan  of reorganization to its depositors for approval at a
  meeting convened in accordance with general regulations  promulgated  by
  the  superintendent  of  financial  services  for  the  sole  purpose of
  approving or disapproving such plan. At such meeting:
    (a) all depositors whose aggregate deposit balance equals at least one
  hundred dollars as of a record date shall be  entitled  to  approve  the
  plan of reorganization, either in person or by valid proxy;
    (b) each depositor entitled to vote shall be entitled to cast one vote
  for each full one hundred dollars of deposits of such depositor shown on
  the books and records of the mutual savings bank as of the record date;
    (c)  no  depositor  shall be entitled to cast any vote for any deposit
  balance in amounts of less than one hundred dollars; and
    (d) no plan of reorganization shall be effective  unless  approved  by
  the  affirmative  vote  of  at  least  seventy-five  per  centum  of the
  aggregate dollar amount of the book value  of  deposits  represented  at
  such  meeting  either  in  person or by valid proxy and entitled to vote
  thereat.


::: 292:formation_of_a_mutual_holding_company.html
 
    &#167; 292.  Formation  of  a  mutual  holding  company.  1.  The  plan  of
  reorganization may authorize the formation of a mutual  holding  company
  by:
    (a)  (i)  the  organization  by  the mutual holding company of a stock
  savings bank subsidiary and the transferal to such stock savings bank of
  the substantial part of its assets and liabilities, including all of its
  deposit liabilities, in accordance with general regulations  promulgated
  by the superintendent of financial services;
    (ii)  the  organization by the mutual savings bank of a mutual holding
  company and the organization by such mutual holding company of  a  stock
  savings bank subsidiary which merges with the mutual savings bank; or
    (iii)  the  reorganization  of the mutual savings bank under any other
  method approved pursuant to general or specific regulations  promulgated
  by the superintendent of financial services.
    (b)  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  (a)  of this subdivision, such
  regulations shall permit the stock savings  bank  to  issue  to  persons
  other  than  the  mutual  holding company of which it is a subsidiary an
  amount of common stock and  securities  convertible  into  common  stock
  which  in  the  aggregate  does  not exceed forty-nine per centum of the
  issued and outstanding common stock of such stock savings bank, provided
  that if a mutual holding company which owns all of the common stock  and
  securities  convertible into common stock of its savings bank subsidiary
  subsequently determines to make such an issuance it shall pay a  fee  as
  prescribed  pursuant  to  section eighteen-a of this chapter. Issued and
  outstanding securities that are convertible into common stock  shall  be
  considered  issued  and  outstanding  common  stock  for the purposes of
  computing the forty-nine per centum limitation. This paragraph shall not
  limit the authority of such stock savings bank to issue equity  or  debt
  securities  other  than  common  stock  and  securities convertible into
  common stock.
    2. In connection with the reorganization of a mutual savings  bank  as
  provided  in  section  two  hundred  ninety  of this article, the mutual
  holding company may retain or acquire assets of the mutual savings  bank
  to  the  extent that such assets are not then required to be transferred
  to or retained by the stock savings bank in order to satisfy capital  or
  reserve   requirements  of  any  applicable  state  or  federal  law  or
  regulation.
    3. A stock savings bank at least fifty-one per centum  but  less  than
  one hundred per centum of the outstanding common stock of which is owned
  by  a  mutual  holding  company shall have at least one director, but no
  more than two-fifths of its directors, who are "unaffiliated  directors"
  who  shall  represent  the  interests  of  the minority shareholders. An
  "unaffiliated director" is a director who  is  not  (a)  an  officer  or
  employee  of the stock savings bank (or any affiliate thereof) or (b) an
  officer, trustee or employee of  the  mutual  holding  company.  If  the
  organization  certificate  or  bylaws  of the stock savings bank provide
  that the board of directors shall be divided into two or  more  classes,
  then to the extent possible, each class shall contain the same number of
  unaffiliated directors as each other class.


::: 293:mutual_holding_company_powers.html
 
    &#167; 293.  Mutual  holding  company  powers.  1.  Upon the formation of a
  mutual holding company by a mutual savings bank:
    (a) except as provided pursuant to the provisions of  subdivision  two
  of  this  section,  the  mutual  holding  company  shall possess all the
  rights, powers and privileges, except deposit-taking powers,  and  shall
  be  subject  to all the limitations, not inconsistent with this article,
  of a mutual savings bank under articles six and sixteen of this chapter.
    (b) the mutual holding company shall be  subject  to  the  limitations
  imposed  by  the  Bank  Holding Company Act of 1956 (title twelve United
  States Code Section 1841, et seq.) or, in the case of a  mutual  holding
  company  resulting  from  the reorganization of a savings bank which has
  elected either prior or subsequent to such reorganization to be  treated
  as  a savings association as that term is defined in title twelve United
  States Code Section 1467a, such mutual holding company shall be  subject
  to  the  limitations  imposed  by  the  savings and loan holding company
  provisions of the Home Owners Loan Act (title twelve United States  Code
  Section 1467a).
    2.  Notwithstanding any inconsistent provisions of section fourteen-e,
  six hundred, six hundred one, six hundred one-a or six hundred one-b  of
  this  chapter,  subject  to  regulations of the superintendent, a mutual
  holding company may:
    (a) merge with, acquire or purchase the assets  of  a  mutual  holding
  company  established  pursuant  to  this article or the savings and loan
  holding company provisions of the Home Owners  Loan  Act  (title  twelve
  United States Code Section 1467a);
    (b) acquire or purchase the assets or stock of a stock savings bank, a
  stock  savings  and  loan association, a stock federal savings bank or a
  stock federal savings and loan association;
    (c)  acquire  a  mutual  savings  bank,  a  mutual  savings  and  loan
  association,  a  federal mutual savings bank or a federal mutual savings
  and loan association through the merger of such institution with a stock
  subsidiary of such mutual holding company;
    (d) engage  in  any  other  acquisition  or  combination  specifically
  permitted  by regulations of the superintendent; provided, however, that
  any such regulation shall only authorize activities which are authorized
  by the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956,  as  amended,
  (title  twelve  United  States  Code,  Section  1841,  et  seq.) and the
  provisions applicable, to mutual holding companies under the Home Owners
  Loan Act, as amended, (title twelve United States Code,  Section  1467a)
  and  any  regulations  or  rules  of  the  Federal Reserve Board and the
  federal Office of Thrift Supervision pursuant thereto, respectively,  to
  the  extent  such  authorized  activities  are  not otherwise limited or
  prohibited by this chapter.


::: 294:conversion_of_mutual_holding_company_into_stock_holding_company.html
 
    &#167; 294.  Conversion  of  mutual  holding  company  into  stock  holding
  company.  1. If approved by the superintendent, a mutual holding company
  may convert to a  stock  holding  company  in  accordance  with  general
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent of financial services.
    2. If approved by the superintendent, the mutual holding company shall
  submit  the  plan  of  conversion  to  its  depositors for approval at a
  meeting convened for that purpose in accordance with  such  regulations.
  The  provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of subdivision three
  of section two hundred ninety-one of this article shall  apply  to  such
  meeting.  For  the  purpose  of  this subdivision, the term "depositors"
  shall mean those depositors as of a record date, of a stock savings bank
  subsidiary of the mutual holding company which:
    (a) was organized as a  result  of  the  reorganization  of  a  mutual
  savings  bank as provided in section two hundred ninety of this article;
  and
    (b) has not at any time subsequent to  its  organization  issued  more
  than forty-nine per centum of its issued and outstanding common stock to
  any  persons  other  than a mutual holding company organized pursuant to
  this article or the savings and loan holding company provisions  of  the
  Home Owners Loan Act (title twelve United States Code Section 1467a).


::: 29:branch_offices_public_accommodation_offices_approval_or_refusal_certificate_investigation_fee.html
 
    &#167;  29.  Branch  offices;  public  accommodation  offices;  approval or
  refusal; certificate; investigation fee.  When  a  banking  organization
  seeks  to  open a branch office or public accommodation office, it shall
  submit a written application  to  the  superintendent.  The  application
  shall contain such information as the superintendent deems necessary. At
  the  time of making such application, an investigation fee as prescribed
  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this article  shall  be  paid  to  the
  superintendent for each branch office or public accommodation office for
  which  leave  to  open  is  sought. If the superintendent finds that the
  opening  of  the  branch  office  or  public  accommodation  office   is
  consistent  with  the  declaration of policy set forth in section ten of
  this article and that  the  applicant  is  in  compliance  with  section
  twenty-eight-b  of  this article, he or she shall issue a certificate in
  triplicate under his or her hand and the official seal of the department
  authorizing the opening and occupation of such branch office  or  public
  accommodation  office  and specifying the date on or after which and the
  conditions under which it may be opened and the place where it shall  be
  located.   The   superintendent  shall  cause  one  of  such  triplicate
  certificates to be transmitted to the applicant, another to be filed  in
  the  office of the department and the third to be filed in the office of
  the clerk of the county in which the principal office of  the  applicant
  is located. If the superintendent shall not find that the opening of the
  branch or public accommodation office is consistent with the declaration
  of policy set forth in section ten of this article or that the applicant
  is  in compliance with section twenty-eight-b of this article, he or she
  shall notify the applicant that the application has been denied.
    No investigation fee for branch applications shall be  collected  from
  applicants  if  such  branch  applications are filed in conjunction with
  proceedings under section one hundred thirty-six, four  hundred  ten  or
  subdivision eight of section six hundred five of this chapter.


::: 2:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 2.  Definitions.  1.  Bank.  The  term,  "bank,"  when  used in this
  chapter, unless a different meaning appears from the context, means  any
  corporation,  other  than a trust company, organized under or subject to
  the provisions of article three of this chapter.
    2. Trust company.  The  term,  "trust  company,"  when  used  in  this
  chapter,  unless a different meaning appears from the context, means any
  corporation or  limited  liability  trust  company  organized  under  or
  subject  to  the provisions of article three of this chapter, having, in
  addition to the other powers specified in such  article,  the  fiduciary
  powers  specified therein. The definitions set forth in section two-b of
  this article shall be utilized when the provisions of this  chapter  are
  applied  to  the  formation  and  operation  of  limited liability trust
  companies.
    3. Private banker. The term,  "private  banker,"  when  used  in  this
  chapter,  means  an  individual  or  partnership  duly authorized by the
  superintendent to engage in the business of a private banker pursuant to
  the provisions of article four of this chapter.
    4. Savings bank. The term, "savings bank," when used in this  chapter,
  means  any  corporation  organized under or subject to the provisions of
  article six of this chapter. Such term shall include stock-form  savings
  banks  which  shall  be subject to the provisions of article six of this
  chapter to the extent not otherwise provided by  the  superintendent  of
  financial  services  pursuant  to  regulations promulgated under section
  fourteen-e of this chapter.
    6. Safe deposit company. The term, "safe deposit company,"  when  used
  in this chapter, means any corporation organized under or subject to the
  provisions of article eight of this chapter.
    7.  Licensed  lender.  The  term, "licensed lender," when used in this
  chapter, means any  person  or  other  entity  duly  authorized  by  the
  superintendent  to  engage  in  business  pursuant  to the provisions of
  article nine of this chapter. The terms,  "licensee,"  and  "licensees,"
  when  used  in  article  nine of this chapter, mean a licensed lender or
  licensed lenders.
    8.  Savings  and  loan  association.  The  term,  "savings  and   loan
  association," when used in this chapter, means any corporation organized
  under  or subject to the provisions of article ten of this chapter. Such
  term shall include stock-form savings and loan associations which  shall
  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of  article ten of this chapter to the
  extent  not  otherwise  provided  by  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services pursuant to regulations promulgated under section fourteen-e of
  this chapter.
    9.  Credit union. The term, "credit union," when used in this chapter,
  means any corporation organized under  article  eleven  of  chapter  six
  hundred  eighty-nine of the laws of nineteen hundred nine, as amended by
  chapter  five  hundred  eighty-two  of  the  laws  of  nineteen  hundred
  thirteen,   or   under  article  eleven  of  this  chapter.  Every  such
  corporation shall be a non-stock corporation.
    10. Investment company. The term, "investment company," when  used  in
  this  chapter,  means  any  corporation  or limited liability investment
  company organized under or subject to the provisions of  article  twelve
  of  this  chapter.  The  definitions  set forth in section two-a of this
  article shall be utilized  when  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  are
  applied  to  the formation and operation of limited liability investment
  companies.
    10-a.  Mutual  trust  investment  company.  The  term  "mutual   trust
  investment  company"  when  used  in  this  chapter, means an investment
  company as defined by  an  act  of  congress  entitled  the  "Investment
  Company  Act  of  1940", approved August twenty-second, nineteen hundred
  forty, as amended, provided that (a) such company is organized under  or
  subject  to  the provisions of article twelve-A of this chapter; and (b)
  all of the stock and shares, other than stock or shares required by  law
  to  qualify directors of such investment company, are or are to be owned
  by trust companies or national banks  having  trust  powers  and  having
  their  principal  offices within the state of New York or their nominees
  or  the  nominees  of  such   corporate   fiduciaries   and   individual
  co-fiduciaries.
    11.  Banking  organizations.  The  term, "banking organizations," when
  used in this chapter, means and includes  all  banks,  trust  companies,
  private bankers, savings banks, safe deposit companies, savings and loan
  associations, credit unions and investment companies.
    12.  Time  deposits.  The  term,  "time  deposits,"  when used in this
  chapter,  and  except  as  provided  otherwise  by  regulation  of   the
  superintendent  of financial services, means all deposits the payment of
  which cannot legally be required within fourteen days.
    13. Demand deposits. The term, "demand deposits," when  used  in  this
  chapter,   and  except  as  provided  otherwise  by  regulation  of  the
  superintendent of financial services, means deposits  payment  of  which
  can legally be required within fourteen days.
    14. Net demand deposits. The term, "net demand deposits," when used in
  this chapter, means the total of all deposits, and of all amounts due to
  banking  corporations  and  private  bankers  and  of all amounts due on
  certified and officers' checks, letters of credit and travelers'  checks
  sold for cash, and for unpaid dividends, less the following items:
    (a) Time deposits;
    (b)  Amounts  due  on demand from banking corporations organized under
  the laws of the United States or any state  of  the  United  States  and
  private   bankers   other  than  a  federal  reserve  bank  and  reserve
  depositaries.
    15. Reserves on hand. The term, "reserves on hand," when used in  this
  chapter,  means  the  reserves against deposits kept in the vault of any
  banking organization.
    16. Reserves on deposit. The term, "reserves on deposit," when used in
  this chapter, means the reserves  against  deposits  maintained  with  a
  federal reserve bank located in this state and with reserve depositaries
  by any banking organization, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
    17.  Total  reserves.  The  term,  "total reserves," when used in this
  chapter, means the aggregate of reserves on hand and reserves on deposit
  maintained pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
    18. Reserve depositary. The term, "reserve depositary," when  used  in
  this  chapter,  means a banking corporation or private banker designated
  by the superintendent as a depositary for reserves on deposit.
    19. Stockholder. The term, "stockholder," when used in  this  chapter,
  unless otherwise qualified, means a person who appears by the books of a
  stock  corporation  to  be the owner and holder of one or more shares of
  the stock of such corporation.
    20. Shareholder. The term, "shareholder," when used in  this  chapter,
  means a member of a mutual savings and loan association or a member of a
  credit union.
    21.  Population.  The  term,  "population," when used in this chapter,
  means population as determined by the latest  federal  census;  or  when
  used   in   connection  with  the  words  "unincorporated  village,"  as
  determined by the superintendent from  the  best  available  sources  of
  information.
    22.  Capital  stock.  The  term,  "capital  stock,"  when used in this
  chapter in  connection  with  any  stock  corporation  subject  to  this
  chapter,  means  the  aggregate  par  value of all outstanding shares of
  every class.
    24.  Deed  of  trust.  The term "mortgage", when used in this chapter,
  shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include a  deed  of  trust
  securing  a  loan;  provided,  however,  that  in applying the recording
  provisions of this chapter in the case of any obligation  secured  by  a
  deed of trust, such provisions shall be deemed to require only that such
  deed  of  trust  be  recorded  in  the  name  of the trustee or trustees
  thereunder.
    25. Bond and mortgage. The term "bond and mortgage", when used in this
  chapter, in referring to investments in or loans secured by mortgages on
  real estate, shall, unless the context  otherwise  requires,  include  a
  note secured by such mortgage.
    26.  Minor or infant. The term, "minor" or "infant", when used in this
  chapter, shall mean a person who has not attained the  age  of  eighteen
  years;  provided,  however, that such definition shall not be applicable
  to any provision relating to the New York Uniform  Transfers  to  Minors
  Act.
    27.  Trust office. The term "trust office", when used in this chapter,
  means an office of a trust company at which the activities conducted are
  limited to one or more of the fiduciary activities permitted for a trust
  company under this chapter and such non-fiduciary activities as  may  be
  ancillary to those activities. A trust office shall not be considered to
  be a branch office pursuant to any other provisions of this chapter.
    (28)  Department.  The  term  "department"  means  the  department  of
  financial services of this state.
    (29)   Superintendent.   The   term   "superintendent"    means    the
  superintendent of financial services of this state.


::: 3001:corporate_name_general.html
 
    &#167; 3001.  Corporate name; general. Except as otherwise provided in this
  chapter, the name of a corporation or a foreign corporation, or the name
  of representative and other offices in this state, which are open to the
  general public and  maintained  by  any  banking  corporation,  wherever
  located,  shall not be the same as the name of a corporation of any type
  or kind, as such  name  appears  on  the  index  of  names  of  existing
  corporations  and  foreign  corporations  of  any  type  or  kind in the
  department of financial services or a name so similar to such name as to
  tend to confuse or deceive.


::: 3002:corporate_name_exceptions.html
 
    &#167; 3002.  Corporate name; exceptions. 1. Any reference to a corporation
  in  this  section  shall   include   both   corporations   and   foreign
  corporations.
    2. The provisions of section three thousand one:
    (a) Shall not require any corporation, existing or licensed under this
  chapter  on  the  effective  date  of this article, to add to, modify or
  otherwise change its corporate name.
    (b) Shall not prevent a corporation with which another corporation  is
  merged  or which is formed by the reorganization or consolidation of one
  or more other corporations or upon a  sale,  lease,  exchange  or  other
  disposition   of   all  or  substantially  all  the  assets  of  another
  corporation, including its name, from having the same  name  as  any  of
  such  corporations if at the time such other corporation was licensed or
  existing under this chapter.


::: 30:unclaimed_amounts_deposit_by_superintendent_in_trust_preference_release_of_debtor.html
 
    &#167; 30.   Unclaimed   amounts;   deposit  by  superintendent  in  trust;
  preference; release of debtor. 1. After the completion of the  voluntary
  or  involuntary  liquidation of the business and property of any banking
  organization or of the business  and  property  in  this  state  of  any
  foreign  banking  corporation,  the  superintendent may take and hold as
  trustee for the owners thereof any  amounts  which  remain  due  to  and
  unclaimed  by  any creditor, depositor, stockholder, shareholder, bailor
  or depositor of property for hire or otherwise, or lessee of  any  safe,
  vault  or  box. Whenever such amounts are received by the superintendent
  and he is not in possession of the business and property of such banking
  organization or corporation, he shall give his receipt for such  amounts
  and  shall forthwith deposit them in one or more banks, trust companies,
  or savings banks, to the  credit  of  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  in trust for the persons entitled thereto. In a liquidation by
  the superintendent he shall deposit such amounts in like manner  at  the
  times provided in article thirteen of this chapter.
    2.  All  such  deposits  by  the  superintendent  shall be entitled to
  priority  of  payment  in  case  of  the  insolvency  or  voluntary   or
  involuntary  liquidation of the depositary on an equality with any other
  priority given by this chapter.
    3. The superintendent shall before the close of each fiscal  year  pay
  into  the  state treasury all interest received by him on such unclaimed
  amounts since the last such payment.
    4. Any  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking  corporation  with
  respect  to  which  the superintendent has received unclaimed amounts as
  trustee for the owners  thereof  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this
  section  shall,  from  and  after  the  date  when  such  amounts are so
  received, be relieved and held harmless from any and all  liability  for
  any  claim  or  claims  which  exist  at  such time with respect to such
  unclaimed amounts, or which may thereafter be  made  or  may  come  into
  existence on account of or in respect of any such unclaimed amounts, and
  no  action  shall  be  maintained  against  such banking organization or
  corporation  or  any  officer,  partner,  agent,   employee,   attorney,
  shareholder  or  stockholder  thereof  for  the  recovery  of  any  such
  unclaimed amounts, or for interest thereon subsequent  to  the  date  of
  receipt  by  the  superintendent or for damages alleged to have resulted
  from the payment thereof to the superintendent.


::: 317:general_powers.html
 
    &#167; 317.  General  powers.  Every safe deposit company shall, subject to
  the limitations and restrictions contained in  this  article,  have  the
  power:
    1.  To  receive  upon  deposit  as  bailee for storage, upon terms and
  conditions to be  prescribed  by  the  safe  deposit  company,  personal
  property and papers of any kind.
    2.  To  engage  in  the  safe deposit business by renting vaults, safe
  deposit boxes and other receptacles upon premises occupied by  the  safe
  deposit  company  upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by
  the safe deposit company.


::: 318:branch_offices.html
 
    &#167; 318.  Branch  offices.  Any safe deposit company having a capital of
  one hundred thousand  dollars  or  more  may,  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions  of  article  two  of  this chapter, be permitted to open and
  maintain a branch office or branch offices in the city or village  where
  its principal office is located.
    Any  safe  deposit  company  having  a capital of one hundred thousand
  dollars or more, the majority of stock of which is owned  by  any  other
  banking  organization  or  a  national  bank may, in accordance with the
  provisions of article two of this chapter,  be  permitted  to  open  and
  maintain   a   branch  office  at  a  location  at  which  such  banking
  organization or national bank is maintaining a  duly  authorized  branch
  office.


::: 319:limitations_upon_the_powers_of_safe_deposit_companies.html
 
    &#167; 319. Limitations upon the powers of safe deposit companies.
    No safe deposit company shall:
    1.  Lend  money,  or  make  any  advance,  on any property left in its
  possession, or belonging to others.
    2. Open or maintain any branch offices, except as provided in  section
  three hundred and eighteen of this article.


::: 31:index_of_persons_entitled_to_unclaimed_amounts_payment_to_persons_entitled_deduction_of_service_charge.html
 
    &#167; 31.  Index  of  persons  entitled  to  unclaimed amounts; payment to
  persons entitled; deduction of service charge. An index shall be kept in
  the office of the department of the names of all persons  for  whom  the
  superintendent  holds in trust any unclaimed amounts. The superintendent
  may pay over any such amount which he holds in trust amounting  to  over
  three  dollars  to any person who shall show by evidence satisfactory to
  the superintendent that he is lawfully entitled to receive it. In  cases
  of  doubt or conflicting claims, he may require of the claimant an order
  of the supreme court authorizing and directing the payment thereof.  The
  superintendent  shall  be  held  harmless and shall not be liable to any
  subsequent claimant for any payment made by him  in  good  faith.    The
  superintendent  shall  deduct  from  the  amount  of  any claim of fifty
  dollars or more allowed by him or ordered by the  court  to  be  paid  a
  service  charge  of one percentum of the amount thereof, but in no event
  less than one dollar and, in  addition,  any  costs,  disbursements  and
  legal  fees  which  the court may allow. The amount so deducted shall be
  paid into the state  treasury  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
  section seventeen of this chapter.


::: 320:books_and_records.html
 
    &#167; 320. Books and records. Every safe deposit company shall conform its
  methods  of  keeping  its  books  and  records to such orders in respect
  thereto as shall have been made and promulgated  by  the  superintendent
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  article two of this chapter. Any safe
  deposit company that refuses or neglects to obey  such  order  shall  be
  subject  to  a  penalty  of  an amount as determined pursuant to section
  forty-four of this chapter for each day it so refuses or neglects.


::: 321:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office.html
 
    &#167; 321.  Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
  Any  safe  deposit  company  may  make  a  written  application  to  the
  superintendent  for  leave  to  change its place or one of its places of
  business to any place  at  which  it  could  be  authorized,  under  the
  provisions  of this chapter, to open and maintain a branch office or for
  leave to change the designation of its  principal  office  to  a  branch
  office and to change the designation of one of its branch offices to its
  principal  office.  The  application  shall  state  the reasons for such
  proposed change, and shall be accompanied by  a  copy  of  a  resolution
  authorizing  the  making  of  the  application, certified by a principal
  officer of the safe deposit company to have been adopted by  vote  of  a
  majority  of  its  entire board of directors at a meeting of such board,
  duly convened and held, as well as by a fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter. If the proposed place of business is
  within  the  limits  of  the  village,  borough or city if in a city not
  divided into boroughs, in which the  place  of  business  sought  to  be
  changed is located, such change may be made upon the written approval of
  the  superintendent.  If  the  proposed place of business is beyond such
  limits, notice of intention  to  make  such  application,  signed  by  a
  principal  officer of the safe deposit company shall be published once a
  week for two successive weeks in a newspaper to  be  designated  by  the
  superintendent  for  the  purpose,  in accordance with the provisions of
  article two of this chapter.  If  the  superintendent  shall  grant  his
  certificate  authorizing  the change of location, as provided in article
  two of this chapter, the safe deposit company may, upon or after the day
  specified in the certificate, remove its property  and  effects  to  the
  location designated therein.


::: 323:assessment_of_stockholders_to_make_good_impairment_of_capital_sale_of_stock.html
 
    &#167; 323.  Assessment of stockholders to make good impairment of capital;
  sale of stock.
    Whenever the superintendent shall have made requisition upon any  safe
  deposit  company  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  article two of this
  chapter to make good the amount of an impairment  of  its  capital,  the
  directors  of  the safe deposit company shall immediately give notice of
  such requisition to each stockholder of the  amount  of  the  assessment
  which  he  must pay for the purpose of making good such deficiency, by a
  written or printed notice mailed to such stockholder  at  his  place  of
  residence,  or  served  personally  upon  him.  If any stockholder shall
  refuse or neglect to pay the assessment specified in such notice  within
  sixty  days  from  the  date thereof, the directors of such safe deposit
  company shall have the right to sell to the  highest  bidder  at  public
  auction  the  stock of such stockholder, after giving previous notice of
  such sale once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
  circulation in the county  where  the  principal  office  of  such  safe
  deposit  company  is located; or such stock may be sold at private sale,
  and without such published notice, provided, however, that before making
  a private sale thereof an offer in writing to purchase such stock  shall
  first be obtained, and a copy thereof served upon the owner of record of
  the  stock  sought  to be sold either personally or by mailing a copy of
  such offer to such owner at  his  place  of  residence  or  the  address
  furnished  by  him to the safe deposit company; and if, after service of
  such offer, such owner  shall  still  refuse  or  neglect  to  pay  such
  assessment  within two weeks from the time of service of such offer, the
  said directors may accept such offer and sell such stock to  the  person
  or persons making such offer, or to any other person or persons making a
  larger  offer  than  the  amount  named  in  the offer submitted to such
  stockholder; but said stock shall in no event be sold for a smaller  sum
  than  the amount of the assessment called for and the necessary costs of
  sale. Out of the avails of the stock sold the directors  shall  pay  the
  necessary  costs  of  sale  and  the amount of the assessment called for
  thereon. The balance, if any, shall be paid to  the  person  or  persons
  whose stock has been thus sold. A sale of stock as herein provided shall
  effect  an  absolute  cancellation  of  the  outstanding  certificate or
  certificates evidencing the stock so sold, and  shall  render  the  same
  null  and  void and a new certificate or certificates shall be issued to
  the purchaser or purchasers of said stock.


::: 324:change_of_control.html
 
    &#167; 324.  Change  of  control.  1. It shall be unlawful, except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent, for any  company,  as  defined  in
  subdivision  two  of  section  one hundred forty-one of this chapter, to
  directly or indirectly acquire  control  of  any  safe  deposit  company
  subject to the provisions of this article.
    As  used  in  this  section,  the term "control" means the possession,
  directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of
  the management and policies of a safe deposit company, whether by  means
  of  the  ownership  of the voting stock or equity interests of such safe
  deposit company or of  one  or  more  companies  controlling  such  safe
  deposit  company  by  means  of a contractual arrangement, or otherwise.
  Control  shall  be  presumed  to  exist  if  any  company,  directly  or
  indirectly,  owns,  controls  or  holds  with  the power to vote ten per
  centum or more of the voting stock of any safe deposit company or of any
  company which owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten per  centum
  or  more of the voting stock of such safe deposit company, but no person
  shall be deemed to control a safe deposit company solely  by  reason  of
  his  being  an  officer  or  director  of such safe deposit company. The
  superintendent may, in his discretion, upon the application  of  a  safe
  deposit  company  or  any  company  which, directly or indirectly, owns,
  controls or holds with power to vote or seeks to own, control  or  holds
  with  power  to  vote  any  voting  stock  of such safe deposit company,
  determine whether or not the  ownership,  control  or  holding  of  such
  voting  stock  constitutes  or  would  constitute  control  of such safe
  deposit company for purposes of this section.
    2. (a) A company which seeks to acquire  control  of  a  safe  deposit
  company  subject  to the provisions of this article shall file a written
  application therefor with the superintendent and  pay  an  investigation
  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter to the
  superintendent. The application shall be in such form and shall  contain
  such information as the superintendent may require.
    (b)  The  superintendent  shall  disapprove  the  proposed exercise of
  control of  any  safe  deposit  company  if,  after  notice  to  and  an
  opportunity  to be heard by the applicant and such safe deposit company,
  he  finds  the  acquisition  of  control  therein  contrary  to  law  or
  determines  that  disapproval  is  reasonably  necessary  to protect the
  interests of the people of this state. In making such determination, the
  superintendent  shall  only  consider   (i)   whether   the   character,
  responsibility and general fitness of the company which seeks to control
  such  safe deposit company are such as to command confidence and warrant
  belief that the business of such safe deposit company will  be  honestly
  and  efficiently  conducted  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the public
  interest, the interests of bailors and creditors of  such  safe  deposit
  company and (ii) whether the exercise of control may impair the safe and
  sound  conduct  of  the  business  of  such  safe  deposit  company, the
  conservation of its assets, or public confidence in its business. Unless
  the superintendent shall have denied such application in writing  within
  ninety  days of the receipt thereof, or shall have advised the applicant
  in writing before the expiration of ninety days of his determination  to
  extend  such  period an additional sixty days, such application shall be
  deemed approved.
    (c) For a period of six months from the date of qualification  thereof
  and  for  such  additional  period  of  time  as  the superintendent may
  prescribe in writing, the provisions of this subdivision shall not apply
  to a transfer of control by operation of law to a legal  representative,
  as hereinafter defined, who has control of a safe deposit company.
    The  term  "legal  representative",  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting in a ancillary capacity thereto in accordance with the provisions
  of such court appointment.


::: 327:use_of_sign_or_words_indicating_safe_deposit_company_by_unauthorized_persons_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 327.  Use  of  sign  or  words  indicating  safe  deposit company by
  unauthorized persons  prohibited.  1.  No  entity,  other  than  a  duly
  chartered safe deposit company, shall make use of any office sign at the
  place where such business is transacted having thereon any artificial or
  corporate  name,  or other words indicating that such place or office is
  the place of business or office of a safe deposit company; nor shall any
  such entity make use of or circulate any letterheads,  billheads,  blank
  forms,  notes,  receipts,  certificates,  circulars,  or  any written or
  printed or partly written and  partly  printed  paper  whatever,  having
  thereon  any  artificial  or  corporate  name,  or  other word or words,
  indicating that such business is the business of a safe deposit company.
    2. Nothing in this section shall be  deemed  to  prevent  any  banking
  organization,  foreign  banking  corporation duly licensed to maintain a
  branch in the state, national bank, federal savings and loan association
  or federal savings bank from engaging in the safe  deposit  business  in
  this state.


::: 328:communications_from_department_of_financial_services_must_be_submitted_to_directors_and_noted_in_minutes.html
 
    &#167; 328.  Communications  from  department of financial services must be
  submitted  to  directors  and   noted   in   minutes.   Every   official
  communication  as  defined  in article two of this chapter directed to a
  safe deposit company or to any officer thereof shall  be  submitted,  by
  the  officer receiving it, to the board of directors at the next meeting
  of such board, and duly noted in the minutes of  the  meetings  of  such
  board.


::: 329:reports_to_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167; 329.  Reports  to superintendent; penalty for failure to make. On or
  before the first day of  February  in  each  year,  every  safe  deposit
  company  shall  make a written report to the superintendent of financial
  services which shall contain a statement of its condition on the morning
  of the first day of January in said year. Every  such  report  shall  be
  subscribed  and  affirmed  as  true  under  the  penalties  of  perjury,
  according to the  best  of  their  knowledge  and  belief,  by  the  two
  principal  officers in charge of the affairs of the safe deposit company
  at the time of such subscription and shall state that the usual business
  of the safe deposit company has been transacted at the location required
  by this article and not elsewhere.
    Every safe deposit company shall also make such other special  reports
  to  the  superintendent as he may from time to time require, which shall
  be in such form and filed at such date  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent and shall, if required by him, be subscribed and affirmed
  as true under the penalties of perjury.
    If  any safe deposit company shall fail to make any report required by
  this section on or before the day designated for the making thereof,  or
  shall fail to include therein any matter required by the superintendent,
  it  shall  forfeit  to  the  people of the state an amount as determined
  pursuant to section forty-four-a of this chapter for every day that such
  report shall be delayed or withheld, and for every  day  that  it  shall
  fail  to  report any such omitted matter, unless the time therefor shall
  have been extended by the superintendent as provided in article  two  of
  this chapter.


::: 32:insurance_of_deposits_and_share_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 32. Insurance of deposits and share accounts.
    1.  Within  one year from the date this section shall have become law,
  every bank, trust company, savings bank, savings  and  loan  association
  and  credit union shall obtain insurance of deposits and share accounts,
  as the case may be:
    (a) from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in the case  of  a
  bank, trust company, savings bank or savings and loan association;
    (b)   from   the   Administrator   of   the   National   Credit  Union
  Administration, in the case of a credit union; or
    (c) in the case of any  such  banking  organization,  from  any  other
  insurer  upon  such  terms  and  conditions  as the superintendent shall
  approve.
    2. No banking organization whose deposit  or  share  accounts  are  so
  insured shall hereafter voluntarily terminate such insured status.
    3.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this section, the
  superintendent shall have the power to promulgate  such  regulations  as
  the  superintendent  deems  necessary  and  proper  (a) to implement and
  define  the  provisions  of  this  section,  (b)  to  exempt  from   the
  requirements  of  this  section  any banking organization which does not
  receive deposits or share accounts from the general public, and (c)  for
  good  cause shown, to extend for up to two years the period within which
  any  banking  organization  must  comply  with   the   requirements   of
  subdivision one of this section.


::: 330:liability_of_safe_deposit_company_for_assessments_by_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 330.   Liability   of   safe  deposit  company  for  assessments  by
  superintendent.  When  the  superintendent,  pursuant  to   the   powers
  conferred  on  him by article two of this chapter, shall have levied any
  assessment upon any safe deposit company and shall  have  duly  notified
  such  safe deposit company of the amount thereof, the amount so assessed
  shall become a liability of and shall  be  paid  by  such  safe  deposit
  company to the superintendent.


::: 332:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 332.  Definitions. As used in this article, the following terms have
  the following meanings:
    1. Lessor. The term, "lessor" means a  banking  organization,  foreign
  banking  corporation  or  a  national  banking association authorized to
  engage in the safe deposit business.
    2. Safe deposit box. The term, "safe deposit box" means a vault,  safe
  deposit box or other receptacle.


::: 333:access_to_safe_deposit_boxes_by_certain_fiduciaries.html
 
    &#167; 333.  Access  to safe deposit boxes by certain fiduciaries.  Where a
  safe deposit box is let by a lessor to one or  more  persons  acting  as
  executors,  administrators,  trustees,  guardians,  a  committee,  or as
  conservators, the lessor may, except as otherwise expressly provided  by
  the  terms  of  the lease or by the will or other instrument or order or
  decree under which such person or persons may be  acting,  allow  access
  thereto as follows:
    1.  By  any  one  or  more  of  the  persons  acting  as  executors or
  administrators;
    2. By any one or more of the persons acting as trustees, guardians,  a
  committee,  or  as conservators when authorized in writing signed by the
  other person or all other persons so acting.
    3. By any agent, authorized in a writing signed and duly  acknowledged
  by  the  person,  or  if  more  than  one,  by all the persons acting as
  executors, administrators, trustees or guardians,  a  committee,  or  as
  conservators.


::: 334:leases_to_minors.html
 
    &#167; 334.  Leases  to  minors.  A  lessor may let a safe deposit box to a
  minor with the same effect as if such lessee were of full age  and  with
  the  same  effect  may  allow access to such safe deposit box and to the
  contents thereof to such lessee or to any deputy or agent  appointed  in
  writing by such lessee.


::: 335:special_remedies_where_rental_of_safe_deposit_box_is_not_paid_or_when_safe_deposit_box_is_not_vacated_on_termination_of_lease.html
 
    &#167; 335.  Special  remedies where rental of safe deposit box is not paid
  or when safe deposit box is not vacated on termination of  lease.  Every
  lessor shall be entitled to the following special remedies:
    1. (a) If the amount due for the rental of any safe deposit box let by
  any  lessor  shall  not  have  been  paid for one year, or if the lessee
  thereof shall not have removed the contents thereof within  thirty  days
  from the termination of the lease therefor for any reason other than for
  non-payment  of  rent, the lessor may, at the expiration of such period,
  send to the lessee of such safe deposit box by registered  or  certified
  mail, return receipt requested, a notice in writing in a securely closed
  postpaid  letter,  directed to such person at his last known post-office
  address, as recorded upon the books of the lessor, notifying such lessee
  that if the amount due for the rental of such safe deposit  box  is  not
  paid  within  thirty  days from date, and/or if the contents thereof are
  not removed within thirty days from date, the lessor may,  at  any  time
  thereafter,  cause  such safe deposit box to be opened, and the contents
  thereof to be inventoried and removed from such safe deposit box.
    (b) At any time after the expiration of thirty days from the  date  of
  mailing  such  notice, and the failure of the lessee of the safe deposit
  box to pay the amount due for the rental thereof to the date of payment,
  and/or remove the contents thereof, the lessor may, in the presence of a
  notary public and of any officer of the lessor or any other employee  of
  the  lessor  designated  for such purpose by the lessor, cause such safe
  deposit box to be opened, and  the  contents  thereof,  if  any,  to  be
  removed  and  inventoried. Such contents shall be retained by the lessor
  for safe-keeping for a period of not less than two years  unless  sooner
  removed  by the lessee of the safe deposit box so opened. The charge for
  such safe-keeping shall not exceed  the  original  rental  of  the  safe
  deposit  box  so  opened. The notary public shall file with the lessor a
  certificate under seal, which shall  fully  set  out  the  date  of  the
  opening  of  such  safe deposit box, the name of the lessee of such safe
  deposit box and a list of the contents, if any.
    (c) A copy of such certificate shall within ten days after the opening
  be mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,  to
  the  lessee  of  the  safe  deposit  box  so  opened,  at his last known
  post-office address, in a securely closed postpaid letter, together with
  a notice that the contents will be kept, at the expense of  the  lessee,
  by  the lessor for a period of not less than two years. Upon the payment
  of all rentals due at the time of the opening of the safe  deposit  box,
  the  cost  of  the  opening  thereof,  the fees of the notary public for
  issuing his certificate thereon, and the payment of all further  charges
  and costs of safe-keeping such contents for the period since the opening
  of  the safe deposit box, the lessee may require the delivery of such of
  the contents set out in such certificate as have not been sold  pursuant
  to  paragraph (d) of this subdivision or destroyed pursuant to paragraph
  (f) of this subdivision, or become abandoned property.
    (d) At any time after the expiration of two years  from  the  time  of
  mailing  the  certificate  herein  provided  for, the lessor may mail by
  registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,  in  a  securely
  closed  postpaid  letter,  addressed  to  the  lessee  at his last known
  post-office address, a notice stating that the lessor will sell all  the
  property or articles of apparent value set out in such certificate, at a
  time  and  place  stated in such notice, not less than thirty days after
  the time of mailing such notice and stating the amount which shall  have
  then  been  due  for  rental up to the time of opening such safe deposit
  box, the cost of the opening thereof, the fees of the notary public  for
  issuing  his  certificate  thereon  and the further charges and costs of
  safe-keeping all of its contents for the period since the opening of the
  safe deposit box. Unless the lessee shall  pay  on  or  before  the  day
  mentioned  all  such  sums and all the charges and costs accruing to the
  time of payment, including advertising, the  lessor  may  sell  all  the
  property  or  articles of apparent value set out in such certificate, at
  public auction, at the time and place stated in such notice, provided  a
  notice  of the time and place of sale has been published once within ten
  days prior to the sale, in a newspaper published in the place where  the
  sale is to be held or, if there be no newspaper published in such place,
  then  in a newspaper published in the same or in an adjoining county and
  in general circulation in the place where the sale is to be held.
    (e) From the proceeds of the sale, the lessor  shall  deduct  all  its
  charges  and  costs  as stated in such notice, together with any further
  charges and costs that shall have accrued  since  the  mailing  thereof,
  including  reasonable  expenses  for  notice,  advertising and sale. The
  balance, if any, may be used to pay from time to time the further  costs
  and  charges  of safe-keeping and destroying the other contents, if any,
  of the safe deposit box. Unless sooner claimed by the lessee of the safe
  deposit box so opened, such balance or such part as shall  remain  after
  the  payment  of  such  further  charges  and  costs  shall,  after  the
  expiration of three years from the time  of  the  opening  of  the  safe
  deposit  box,  be deemed abandoned property subject to the provisions of
  article three of the abandoned property law.
    (f) Any documents, letters or other papers of a private nature and any
  property or articles of no apparent value among the contents of any such
  safe deposit box shall not be sold, but shall be retained by the  lessor
  for  a  period of at least ten years from the time of the opening of the
  safe deposit box, and, unless sooner claimed by the lessee of  the  safe
  deposit box, may thereafter be destroyed.
    (f-1)  Any  military awards, medals, or decorations among the contents
  of any safe deposit box shall not be sold, but  shall  be  sent  to  the
  division of military and naval affairs of the executive department where
  such awards, medals, or decorations shall be retained indefinitely until
  claimed  by the lessee of the safe deposit box or the lessee's estate or
  released to a person or entity lawfully entitled to possession  thereof.
  The   state   comptroller   shall  develop  regulations  specifying  the
  procedures and requirements for delivering such items to the division of
  military and naval affairs and for reporting  such  information  to  the
  state  comptroller's  office.  The  New  York  state military museum and
  veterans research center under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  division  of
  military  and  naval  affairs  of the executive department shall provide
  storage for and shall display any such awards, medals, or decorations.
    (g) United States coin or currency among  the  contents  of  any  safe
  deposit box so opened need not be sold, but may be used by the lessor to
  pay  the  amount  which shall have been due for rental up to the time of
  opening such safe deposit box, the cost of the opening thereof, the fees
  of the notary public for issuing his certificate  thereon,  and  to  pay
  from time to time the further charges and costs of safe-keeping, selling
  and destroying the contents of the safe deposit box so opened, including
  reasonable  expenses  for notices, advertising and sale and destruction.
  Unless sooner claimed by the lessee of the safe deposit box,  such  coin
  and  currency  or  such  part  as shall remain after payment of the said
  charges and costs shall, after the expiration of three  years  from  the
  time  of  the  opening  of  the  safe  deposit  box, be deemed abandoned
  property subject to the provisions of article  three  of  the  abandoned
  property law.
    2.  Whenever in subdivision one of this section, a lessor is given the
  power to sell the contents of a safe deposit box, such  power  shall  be
  deemed  to  include  the  power  to  sell any bonds, stock certificates,
  promissory notes, choses in action or other  securities  and  any  other
  tangible  and  intangible  properties  found  in  such safe deposit box,
  regardless of whether or not it shall appear  from  such  securities  or
  properties that the lessee of the safe deposit box possesses title to or
  any  interest  in  such  securities,  or  other  properties, or power to
  transfer such title or interest.
    3. If the principal of or interest  or  dividends  on  any  securities
  found  in  a  safe deposit box opened pursuant to the provisions of this
  section, is due and payable at the time of  the  opening  of  such  safe
  deposit  box  or  thereafter while the same remains in the possession of
  the lessor shall  become  due  and  payable,  the  lessor  may,  at  its
  election,  collect  such  principal and/or interest and/or dividends and
  from the proceeds thereof may deduct all sums due from the lessee of the
  safe deposit box for rental to the time of opening such safe deposit box
  and for the cost of opening thereof, the fees of the notary  public  for
  issuing  his  certificate  thereon, and the further charges and costs of
  safe-keeping of the contents  thereof  from  the  time  of  the  opening
  thereof  including reasonable expenses for notices, advertising and sale
  and destruction.  The balance, if any, of such collection  shall,  after
  the  expiration of three years from the time of the opening of such safe
  deposit box, be deemed abandoned property subject to the  provisions  of
  article three of the abandoned property law.
    4. A lessor holding a safe deposit box originally let by a predecessor
  in  interest,  or a lessor which has been dissolved, or a lessor holding
  the contents of such safe deposit box may have the remedies provided  by
  this section as to such safe deposit box or the contents thereof in like
  manner  and  to  the  same  extent  as if such safe deposit box had been
  rented from such lessor in the first instance.
    5. The provisions of this section shall not preclude any other  remedy
  by  action  or otherwise for the enforcement of the claims of the lessor
  against the person to whom a safe deposit box shall have been  let,  nor
  bar  the  right  of  the  lessor to recover the debt due it in any other
  lawful manner.


::: 336:special_remedies_where_property_is_deposited.html
 
    &#167; 336.  Special remedies where property is deposited. 1. Every banking
  organization,  foreign   banking   corporation   or   national   banking
  association  authorized  to  receive  personal property upon deposit for
  safe-keeping or as bailee for storage, and which shall have received any
  such property and shall have issued a receipt therefor, shall  have  the
  remedies  of  a  warehouseman  as  to  such  property,  and  the banking
  organization,  foreign   banking   corporation   or   national   banking
  association  shall  have a lien on such deposits or the proceeds thereof
  to the same extent and with the same effect, and enforceable in the same
  manner, as is provided by article seven of the uniform commercial code.
    2. A banking organization, foreign  banking  corporation  or  national
  banking  association  holding personal property upon deposit for which a
  receipt was issued by a predecessor in interest may  have  the  remedies
  provided by this section.
    3.  The provisions of this section shall not preclude any other remedy
  by action or otherwise for the enforcement of the claim of  the  banking
  organization,   foreign   banking   corporation   or   national  banking
  association against the person from  whom  personal  property  has  been
  received  upon  deposit  and  to  whom  a receipt shall have been issued
  therefor, nor bar the right of the banking organization, foreign banking
  corporation or national banking association to recover the debt  due  it
  in any other lawful manner.


::: 337:sale_of_safe_deposit_business.html
 
    &#167; 337.  Sale  of  safe  deposit business. Subject to the provisions of
  subdivision eight of section six hundred five  of  article  thirteen  of
  this  chapter,  any  banking organization or foreign banking corporation
  may, with the approval of the superintendent, sell  to  another  banking
  organization,   foreign   banking   corporation   or   national  banking
  association authorized to conduct the business of renting  safe  deposit
  boxes,  all  or any part of its safe deposit business, and upon at least
  thirty days notice in writing to the lessees of the safe  deposit  boxes
  so  sold,  such safe deposit boxes may be delivered to the possession of
  such purchasing banking organization,  foreign  banking  corporation  or
  national  banking  association  and thereupon, except for claims against
  the selling banking organization or foreign banking corporation asserted
  in writing prior to such delivery, the obligations  and  rights  of  the
  selling  banking  organization  or  foreign banking corporation upon the
  leases relating thereto shall be deemed to be assumed by the  purchasing
  banking  organization,  foreign  banking corporation or national banking
  association  as  a  successor  in  interest  of  the   selling   banking
  organization  or  foreign  banking  corporation  and the selling banking
  organization or foreign banking corporation  shall  be  discharged  from
  liability  in  respect thereof.   Any lessee of a safe deposit box, upon
  receipt of a notice in writing of the proposed sale of such safe deposit
  box by a  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking  corporation,  may
  terminate  his  lease  therefor  by  removing the contents therefrom and
  surrendering such safe  deposit  box  to  the  banking  organization  or
  foreign  banking  corporation prior to the date fixed in such notice for
  the delivery  of  such  safe  deposit  box  to  the  purchasing  banking
  organization,   foreign   banking   corporation   or   national  banking
  association and thereupon such lessee shall be entitled to a  refund  of
  the  unearned  rent,  if any, paid by such lessee to the selling banking
  organization or foreign banking corporation.


::: 338:notice_to_renters_of_safe_deposit_boxes_regarding_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 338. Notice to renters of safe deposit boxes regarding insurance. 1.
  Any  banking  organization  or  safe  deposit  company which offers safe
  deposit boxes for rent shall provide each customer at the time of rental
  with a copy of a safe deposit box rental agreement. Such agreement shall
  include, on its face, or on an attachment thereto a notice in  at  least
  eight point bold type reading as follows:
       Important  Notice:  (1)  The contents of your safe deposit box
       may not be fully protected against loss  under  the  insurance
       coverage  maintained  by the bank or safe deposit company. (2)
       For your protection, you may wish to secure your own insurance
       through an insurance company of your choice.  (3)  You  should
       keep a complete list and description of all property stored in
       your safe deposit box, and any available proof of ownership.
    2.  The  notice  required  under subdivision one of this section shall
  also appear on all subsequent rental bills or attachments thereto.


::: 33:reserve_depositaries.html
 
    &#167; 33.   Reserve   depositaries.   The  superintendent  shall,  in  his
  discretion, upon the nomination of any bank, trust  company,  industrial
  bank,  foreign  banking  corporation  authorized to maintain a branch or
  branches in this state or private banker, designate as a depositary  for
  its  reserves  on  deposit  a  bank,  trust  company,  private banker or
  national bank located in this state, or a  banking  corporation  located
  elsewhere  in  the  United States if such banking corporation shall make
  such reports as the superintendent may prescribe  and  shall  submit  to
  such  examinations  as  he  may  deem  necessary.    No such bank, trust
  company, private banker, national bank or banking corporation may  be  a
  depositary  of any such reserves unless it shall have a combined capital
  and surplus of at least
    (1) One million dollars, if located in a borough in this  state  which
  has a population of one million five hundred thousand or over;
    (2)  Seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars, if located in a borough
  in this state which has a population of one million  or  over  and  less
  than  one  million  five hundred thousand or in a city in this state not
  divided into boroughs which has a population of four hundred thousand or
  over;
    (3) Five hundred thousand dollars, if located elsewhere in this state;
    (4) Two million dollars, if located outside this state.
    No bank, trust company, private banker or national bank located  in  a
  borough having a population of one million five hundred thousand or over
  which  does  not  have  a  combined  capital and surplus of at least two
  million dollars, may be a depositary for such reserves unless  it  shall
  have  a  combined  capital and surplus greater than the combined capital
  and surplus of the bank, trust company, industrial bank, foreign banking
  corporation authorized to maintain a branch or branches in this state or
  private banker depositing such reserves.


::: 340:doing_business_without_license_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 340.  Doing  business without license prohibited. No person or other
  entity shall engage in the business of making  loans  in  the  principal
  amount  of  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  or  less  for any loan to an
  individual for personal, family, household, or investment  purposes  and
  in a principal amount of fifty thousand dollars or less for business and
  commercial loans, and charge, contract for, or receive a greater rate of
  interest  than the lender would be permitted by law to charge if he were
  not a licensee hereunder  except  as  authorized  by  this  article  and
  without first obtaining a license from the superintendent.
    For  the  purposes  of  this  section,  a  person  or  entity shall be
  considered as engaging in the business of making loans in New York,  and
  subject  to  the licensing and other requirements of this article, if it
  solicits loans in the amounts prescribed by  this  section  within  this
  state  and,  in  connection  with  such  solicitation,  makes  loans  to
  individuals then resident in this state, except that no person or entity
  shall be considered as engaging in the business of making loans in  this
  state  on  the  basis of isolated, incidental or occasional transactions
  which otherwise meet the requirements of this section.
    Nothing in this  article  shall  apply  to  licensed  collateral  loan
  brokers.


::: 341:application_for_license_fees_capital_requirements.html
 
    &#167; 341.  Application for license; fees; capital requirements. 1. (a) As
  used in this article, the term master license  shall  mean  an  original
  license granted to a person or entity.
    (b)  As used in this article, the term supplemental license shall mean
  the license granted to a person or entity having a  master  license  for
  additional licensed locations.
    2.  An  application  for  a  master license shall be in writing, under
  oath, and in the form prescribed by the superintendent and shall contain
  such information as the superintendent may require by  regulations.  The
  application  shall set forth all of the locations at which the applicant
  seeks  to  conduct  business  hereunder.  At  the  time  of  making  the
  application  for  a  master  license,  the  applicant  shall  pay to the
  superintendent a fee as prescribed pursuant  to  section  eighteen-a  of
  this   chapter   for   each  proposed  location  for  investigating  the
  application.
    3. In addition to the investigation fee and annual license  fee  every
  licensee  hereunder shall pay to the superintendent the sums provided to
  be paid under the provisions of section seventeen of the banking law.
    4. In connection  with  an  application  for  a  master  license,  the
  applicant  shall  submit  an affidavit of financial solvency noting such
  capitalization  requirements  and  access  to  such  credit  as  may  be
  prescribed by the regulations of the superintendent.
    5.  The  applicant  shall  also  prove,  in  form  satisfactory to the
  superintendent, that the applicant has available for  the  operation  of
  such  business at the location or locations specified in the application
  liquid assets of at least fifty thousand dollars. This amount  shall  be
  maintained  for  the period within which the licensee makes loans in the
  amounts prescribed in section three hundred forty  of  this  article  at
  such location.
    6.  If  a  person  or  entity  holding  a master license seeks to open
  another location for the conduct of  activities  licensable  under  this
  article,  the  licensee  shall first submit written notification of this
  fact to the superintendent. The notification shall contain  the  address
  of  the new location and the master license number. An investigation fee
  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this  chapter  shall  be
  paid  for each additional location. Upon receipt of the notification and
  fees, the superintendent shall issue a temporary  supplemental  license,
  valid for a period not exceeding thirty days, pending the final approval
  of  the new location. The superintendent, in his or her sole discretion,
  may extend the  validity  of  the  temporary  supplemental  license  for
  additional  thirty day periods pending investigation, but such extension
  shall not exceed a total  of  sixty  days.  The  temporary  supplemental
  license  shall,  upon  written  approval  by  the superintendent, become
  permanent after thirty days of issuance, or after the expiration of  any
  extension granted by the superintendent, unless the superintendent finds
  that  the  opening  of  the  new  location by the licensee is not in the
  public interest, in which case, the superintendent shall send a  written
  denial  to  the  licensee.  Upon  receipt  of  such  written denial, the
  temporary supplemental license issued to the licensee shall become  void
  and  the  licensee shall immediately cease all activity licensable under
  this article at the location set forth on such license. The  failure  of
  the  superintendent to give written approval or denial of the permanence
  of the temporary supplemental license prior to expiration of the initial
  thirty day period or any  extension  thereof  shall  not  be  deemed  to
  constitute the approval of a permanent supplemental license.


::: 342:conditions_precedent_to_issuing_license_procedure_where_application_denied.html
 
    &#167; 342.  Conditions  precedent  to  issuing  license;  procedure  where
  application denied. Upon the filing of such application and the  payment
  of  such  fees,  if  the  superintendent  shall  find that the financial
  responsibility,  experience,  character,  and  general  fitness  of  the
  applicant,  and of the members thereof if the applicant be a partnership
  or association, and  of  the  officers  and  directors  thereof  if  the
  applicant be a corporation, are such as to command the confidence of the
  community  and  to  warrant  belief  that  the business will be operated
  honestly, fairly, and efficiently within the purposes of  this  article,
  and  if  the  superintendent shall find that the applicant has available
  for the operation of such business at  each  specified  location  liquid
  assets  of  at  least  fifty  thousand dollars, the superintendent shall
  thereupon execute a master  license,  and  if  applicable  one  or  more
  supplemental  licenses,  to make loans in accordance with the provisions
  of this article at the location  or  locations  specified  in  the  said
  application.  The superintendent shall transmit one copy of such license
  or licenses to the applicant and file the same  in  the  office  of  the
  department.  Each  such  license  shall  remain in full force and effect
  until it is surrendered by the  licensee  or  revoked  or  suspended  as
  hereinafter  provided; if the superintendent shall not so find, a master
  license shall not be issued and  the  superintendent  shall  notify  the
  applicant  of  the  denial. If an application is denied or withdrawn the
  superintendent shall return  to  the  applicant  the  sum  paid  by  the
  applicant as a license fee, retaining the investigation fee to cover the
  costs of investigating the application. The superintendent shall approve
  or  deny  every application for a master license hereunder within ninety
  days from the filing thereof with the said fees.


::: 343:license_provisions_separate_license_for_each_place_of_business_change_of_location.html
 
    &#167; 343.   License  provisions;  separate  license  for  each  place  of
  business; change of location. 1. A license shall state  the  address  at
  which  the business is to be conducted and shall state fully the name of
  the licensee, and if the licensee is a partnership or  association,  the
  names  of  the members thereof, and if a corporation, the date and place
  of its incorporation. A  master  license  shall  be  kept  conspicuously
  posted  in  the  principal  place  of  business  of  the  licensee and a
  supplemental license shall  be  conspicuously  posted  at  the  location
  identified  in  the  license. No master or supplemental license shall be
  transferable or assignable.
    2. A separate license shall be required for each location at  which  a
  licensee   makes  loans  under  the  provisions  of  this  article.  The
  superintendent may issue more than one license to the same licensee. For
  each new license, the licensee shall comply with  all  the  requirements
  for obtaining a license as stated in this article.
    3.  (a)  A  licensee  may  change  the  location  of a licensed lender
  business by giving written notice to the superintendent at least  thirty
  days  prior to such change. The licensee shall pay to the superintendent
  a fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this  chapter  for
  each  change  of location and shall provide any information which may be
  required regarding the change of location.
    (b) The superintendent shall, if satisfied that there is no reasonable
  objection to such change of location  and  upon  the  surrender  of  the
  license  for  the  location  which  is  being  changed,  issue a license
  containing the information required by subdivision one of this  section.
  If  the  superintendent  shall  not  be satisfied that such change is in
  accordance with the purposes of this article, the  superintendent  shall
  refuse   such  change  of  location  and  notify  the  licensee  of  the
  determination.


::: 344:issuance_of_license_upon_acquisition_of_business_of_licensed_lender.html
 
    &#167; 344.  Issuance  of  license upon acquisition of business of licensed
  lender. 1. Prior to any acquisition, by merger, consolidation,  purchase
  of  assets  or  otherwise, except by purchase of stock, of the assets or
  business, or a substantial  part  thereof,  of  a  licensee  under  this
  article,  the  person desirous of continuing to maintain and operate any
  place of business theretofore maintained and operated by  such  licensee
  and   each   person  who  controls  such  person  shall  file  with  the
  superintendent, for all such places of  business,  one  application,  in
  such  form  and  containing  such information, including the information
  required under section three hundred forty-one of this article,  as  the
  superintendent  may require. At the time of making such application, the
  applicants shall pay to the  superintendent  an  investigation  fee,  as
  prescribed  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter if the person
  desirous of continuing to maintain and operate such places  of  business
  is  already  licensed  under  this article, or, if such person is not so
  licensed,  an  investigation  fee  as  prescribed  pursuant  to  section
  eighteen-a   of   this   chapter.   If  such  person  is  licensed,  the
  superintendent shall amend the license accordingly within thirty days if
  it is found that the acquisition is in accordance with the  purposes  of
  this  article.  If such person is not licensed, the superintendent shall
  determine whether the financial responsibility,  experience,  character,
  and general fitness of the applicants, and of the members thereof if any
  applicant  be  a  partnership  or  association,  and  of  the  officers,
  directors and controlling stockholders thereof if  any  applicant  be  a
  corporation,  are such as to command the confidence of the community and
  to warrant belief that the business will be operated  honestly,  fairly,
  and   efficiently   within   the   purpose   of  this  article  and  the
  superintendent shall approve or deny such application within ninety days
  of  the  filing  thereof.  If  the   superintendent   disapproves   such
  application,  or,  if no such application has been made, the license for
  each such  place  of  business  shall  become  null  and  void  and  the
  applicants  or  licensee,  whoever  has possession of each such license,
  shall forthwith surrender the  license  theretofore  in  effect  to  the
  superintendent.  If  the  superintendent  approves such application, the
  person being acquired shall surrender to the superintendent the  license
  theretofore   in  effect  for  each  such  place  of  business  and  the
  superintendent shall issue and transmit one copy of  a  new  license  to
  maintain  and operate each such place of business to the person desirous
  of continuing to maintain and operate such place of  business  and  file
  another copy in the department.
    As  used  in  this  subdivision one, (a) the term "person" includes an
  individual,  partnership,  corporation,   association   or   any   other
  organization  and  (b) the term "control" means the possession, directly
  or indirectly, of the power to direct or  cause  the  direction  of  the
  management  and  policies of a person, whether by means of the ownership
  of the voting stock or equity interests of such person or of one or more
  persons controlling such persons, by means of a contractual arrangement,
  or otherwise. Control shall be presumed to exist if any person  directly
  or  indirectly  owns,  controls  or holds with the power to vote ten per
  centum or more of the voting stock or equity  interests  of  the  person
  desirous  of  continuing  to  maintain and operate a licensee's place of
  business or of any entity which directly  or  indirectly  controls  such
  person.  The  superintendent  may, upon the application of a licensee or
  any such person or entity,  determine  whether  or  not  the  ownership,
  control  or holding of such voting stock or equity interests constitutes
  or would constitute control for purposes of this subdivision.
    2. The transfer by operation of law  to  a  legal  representative,  as
  hereinafter  defined, of the assets or business of a licensee under this
  article, or a  substantial  part  thereof,  shall  not,  to  the  extent
  hereinafter  provided,  be  deemed  an acquisition within the meaning of
  this section. Such legal representative, if duly  qualified  to  act  in
  this  state,  may continue to maintain and operate any place of business
  theretofore maintained and operated by such licensee, subject to all the
  provisions of this chapter including the payment of license fees, for  a
  period of not more than six months from the date of his qualification as
  legal  representative  and  for  such  additional  period of time as the
  superintendent may prescribe in writing. During such period,  the  legal
  representative  shall  be  deemed  a  licensee  under  this article. The
  appointment and qualification of a successor to the legal representative
  shall not, without the approval of the superintendent, operate to extend
  such period.
    Each such legal representative shall promptly  following  his  or  her
  appointment file with the superintendent a certificate or duly certified
  copy  of  an order of the court to evidence his authority to acquire the
  assets of the licensee and to maintain and operate the business thereof.
  If a legal representative desires to continue to  maintain  and  operate
  any  place  of  business  theretofore  maintained  and  operated  by the
  licensee he or she shall, prior to the  expiration  of  such  six  month
  period  or  any extension thereof prescribed by the superintendent, file
  an application pursuant to this section  and  comply  with  all  of  the
  provisions  of  this  chapter. The investigation fee payable upon filing
  such application shall be as prescribed pursuant to  section  eighteen-a
  of this chapter.
    The  term  "legal  representative,"  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction as an
  executor, administrator, trustee, committee,  conservator  or  receiver,
  including  one  who succeeds a legal representative and one acting in an
  ancillary capacity thereto in accordance with  the  provisions  of  such
  court appointment.
    If any provision of this section, or the application of such provision
  to  any  individual, company, corporation or circumstance, shall be held
  invalid, the remainder of this section, and the application  thereof  to
  anyone  other  than  the  one  to which it is held invalid, shall not be
  affected thereby.


::: 345:application_for_acquisition_of_control_of_licensed_lender_by_purchase_of_stock.html
 
    &#167; 345.  Application  for  acquisition of control of licensed lender by
  purchase of stock. 1. Prior to the acquisition of control of a  licensee
  under  this  article by means of the acquisition of the capital stock or
  equity interests in such licensee or  in  any  person  who  directly  or
  indirectly controls such licensee, the person desirous of acquiring such
  capital  stock  or other equity interests shall make written application
  to the superintendent. Such application shall be in such form and  shall
  contain  such  information,  including  the  information  required under
  section three hundred forty-one of this article, as  the  superintendent
  may  require  and such applicant, at the time of making such application
  if not licensed, shall pay to the superintendent an investigation fee as
  prescribed pursuant to section  eighteen-a  of  this  chapter.  If  such
  licensee is licensed, upon payment of an investigation fee as prescribed
  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter, the superintendent shall
  approve  the  acquisition  if  it  is  found that such acquisition is in
  accordance with the purposes of this article.  If  such  person  is  not
  licensed,  the  superintendent  shall  determine  whether  the financial
  responsibility,  experience,  character,  and  general  fitness  of  the
  applicant,  and of the members thereof if the applicant be a partnership
  or  association,  and  of  the  officers,  directors   and   controlling
  stockholders  thereof  if the applicant be a corporation, are such as to
  command the confidence of the community and to warrant belief  that  the
  business  will  be operated honestly, fairly, and efficiently within the
  purpose of this article. Unless the  superintendent  shall  have  denied
  such  application  in  writing within ninety days of the filing thereof,
  such application shall be deemed approved. If no  such  application  has
  been  made,  the  license  for  each  place  of  business maintained and
  operated by the licensee shall, at the discretion of the superintendent,
  become null and void and each such license shall be surrendered  to  the
  superintendent.  In  addition,  the  superintendent may, in a proceeding
  after notice and a hearing, require any person who has  failed  to  make
  application pursuant to this subdivision to pay the people of this state
  a  penalty  in an amount as determined pursuant to section forty-four of
  this chapter for each day of said violation.
    As used in  this  subdivision,  (a)  the  term  "person"  includes  an
  individual,   partnership,   corporation,   association   or  any  other
  organization and (b) the term "control" means the  possession,  directly
  or  indirectly,  of  the  power  to direct or cause the direction of the
  management and policies of a person, whether by means of  the  ownership
  of the voting stock or equity interests of such person or of one or more
  persons  controlling such person, by means of a contractual arrangement,
  or otherwise. Control shall be presumed to exist if any person  directly
  or  indirectly  owns,  controls  or holds with the power to vote ten per
  centum or more of the voting stock or equity  interests  of  the  person
  desirous  of  continuing  to  maintain and operate a licensee's place of
  business or of any entity which directly  or  indirectly  controls  such
  person.  The  superintendent  may, upon the application of a licensee or
  any such person or entity,  determine  whether  or  not  the  ownership,
  control  or holding of such voting stock or equity interests constitutes
  or would constitute control for purposes of this subdivision.
    2. For a period of six months from the date of  qualification  thereof
  and  for  such  additional  period  of  time  as  the superintendent may
  prescribe in writing, the provisions of subdivision one of this  section
  shall  not  apply  to  a  transfer of control by operation of law to the
  legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who has control  of
  a  licensee. Thereafter, such legal representative shall comply with the
  provisions of  subdivision  one  of  this  section.  The  provisions  of
  subdivision  one  of  this section shall be applicable to an application
  made under such section by a legal representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative,"  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    If any provision of this section, or the application of such provision
  to any individual, company, corporation or circumstance, shall  be  held
  invalid,  the  remainder of this section, and the application thereof to
  anyone other than one to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected
  thereby.


::: 347:grounds_for_revocation_or_suspension_of_license_procedure.html
 
    &#167; 347. Grounds for revocation or suspension of license; procedure. The
  superintendent may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder if the
  superintendent shall find that:
    (a)  The licensee has failed to pay any sum of money lawfully demanded
  by  the  superintendent  or  to  comply  with  any  demand,  ruling,  or
  requirement of the superintendent;
    (b)  The licensee has violated any provisions of this article, the act
  of  congress  entitled  "Truth  in  Lending  Act"  and  the  regulations
  thereunder,  as  such  act  and  regulations  may  from  time to time be
  amended,  or  of  any  rule  or  regulation   lawfully   made   by   the
  superintendent;
    (c)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the  original  application  for  such  license,  clearly  would  have
  warranted  the  superintendent  in  refusing  originally  to  issue such
  license;
    (d) The licensee has engaged  in  the  business  of  a  sales  finance
  company  and has done or failed to do any act, except the failure to pay
  the fees  required,  which  would  be  grounds  for  the  suspension  or
  revocation  of  its license pursuant to section four hundred ninety-five
  of this chapter were it required to obtain such a license.
    The superintendent may on good cause shown, without notice or hearing,
  suspend any license for a period  not  exceeding  thirty  days,  pending
  investigation.
    The  superintendent  may revoke or suspend only the particular license
  with respect to which grounds for revocation or suspension may occur  or
  exist,  or,  if  the  superintendent  shall  find  that such grounds for
  revocation or suspension are of general application to all  offices,  or
  to  more  than one office, operated by such licensee, the superintendent
  shall revoke or suspend all of the licenses issued to such  licensee  or
  such number of licenses as such grounds apply to, as the case may be.
    Any   licensee   may  surrender  any  license  by  delivering  to  the
  superintendent written notice that the licensee thereby surrenders  such
  license,  but  such  surrender shall not affect such licensee's civil or
  criminal liability for acts committed prior to such surrender.
    No revocation or suspension or surrender of any license  shall  impair
  or affect the obligation of any pre-existing lawful contract between the
  licensee and any borrower.
    Every  license issued hereunder shall remain in force and effect until
  it shall have been surrendered, revoked, or suspended in accordance with
  the provisions of  this  article,  but  the  superintendent  shall  have
  authority  to reinstate suspended licenses or to issue new licenses to a
  licensee whose license or licenses shall have been revoked if no fact or
  condition  then  exists  which  clearly   would   have   warranted   the
  superintendent  in  refusing originally to issue such license under this
  article.
    Whenever the superintendent shall revoke or suspend a  license  issued
  pursuant  to  this  article,  the superintendent shall execute a written
  order to that effect. The superintendent shall file  one  copy  of  such
  order  in  the  office  of  the  department  and  serve  a copy upon the
  licensee, which order may be reviewed in the manner provided by  article
  seventy-eight  of  the  civil  practice  law  and  rules.  Such  special
  proceeding for review as authorized by this section  must  be  commenced
  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  such  order  of suspension or
  revocation.


::: 348:superintendent_authorized_to_examine.html
 
    &#167; 348.  Superintendent  authorized  to  examine.  For  the  purpose of
  discovering violations of this article or securing information  lawfully
  required  hereunder, the superintendent may at any time, and as often as
  may be determined, either personally or by a person duly  designated  by
  the  superintendent,  investigate the loans and business and examine the
  books, accounts, records, and files used therein of every licensee.  For
  that purpose the  superintendent  and  duly  designated  representatives
  shall  have  free  access  to  the offices and place of business, books,
  accounts,  papers,  records,  files,  safes  and  vaults  of  all   such
  licensees.  The  superintendent  shall  have  authority  to  require the
  attendance of and to examine under oath  all  persons  whomsoever  whose
  testimony may be required relative to such loans or such business.


::: 349:licensees_books_and_records_reports.html
 
    &#167; 349.  Licensee's books and records; reports. The licensee shall keep
  and use in its business such books, accounts, and records as will enable
  the superintendent to determine whether such licensee is complying  with
  the  provisions  of  this  article  and  with  the rules and regulations
  lawfully made by the  superintendent  hereunder.  Every  licensee  shall
  preserve  such books, accounts, and records, including cards used in the
  card system, if any, for at least two years after making the final entry
  on any loan recorded therein.  Preservation of photographic reproduction
  thereof or records in  photographic  form,  including  an  optical  disk
  storage  system and the use of electronic data processing equipment that
  provides comparable records to those otherwise required  and  which  are
  available  for examination upon request shall constitute compliance with
  the requirements of this section.
    Each licensee shall annually on or before the first day of April  file
  a  report  with  the  superintendent  giving  such  information  as  the
  superintendent may require concerning the business and operations during
  the preceding calendar year of each licensed place of business conducted
  by such licensee within the state under authority of this article.  Such
  report  shall  be  subscribed and affirmed as true by the licensee under
  the penalties of perjury and shall be in  the  form  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent  who  shall  make  and  publish  annually  a consolidated
  statement of condition showing the combined assets  and  liabilities  of
  all  licensed lenders. Such consolidated statement of condition shall be
  based upon the information contained in such  reports.  In  addition  to
  annual  reports,  the superintendent may require such additional regular
  or special reports as may be deemed necessary to the proper  supervision
  of licensees under this article. Such additional reports shall be in the
  form  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  and  shall  be subscribed and
  affirmed as true under the penalties of perjury.


::: 34:superintendent_as_attorney_to_accept_service_of_process.html
 
    &#167; 34.  Superintendent  as  attorney  to  accept  service  of  process.
  Whenever pursuant to any provision of this chapter,  the  superintendent
  shall  have  been  duly appointed attorney to receive service of process
  for  any  individual,   partnership,   unincorporated   association   or
  corporation,  such  service  shall  be  made  by  personally  delivering
  duplicate  copies  of  the  process  to  and  leaving  them   with   the
  superintendent  or any deputy superintendent. Service of process so made
  shall be deemed to have been made within the territorial jurisdiction of
  any court in this state. The  superintendent  or  deputy  superintendent
  shall  forthwith  forward  by  mail,  postage  prepaid,  a copy of every
  process served upon him in accordance with this section, directed to the
  person last designated by such individual,  partnership,  unincorporated
  association  or  corporation  in  accordance with the provisions of this
  chapter to receive such process on his or its behalf. For  each  service
  of process upon the superintendent or a deputy, he shall collect the sum
  of  two dollars, which shall be paid by the plaintiff or moving party at
  the time of such service. The term process when used  in  this  section,
  includes  any  writ, summons, petition or order whereby any suit, action
  or proceeding shall be commenced.


::: 350:restrictions_concerning_advertising_liens_on_real_estate_and_places_where_loans_made.html
 
    &#167; 350.  Restrictions concerning advertising, liens on real estate, and
  places where loans made. 1.  (a)  No  licensee  or  other  entity  shall
  advertise, print, display, publish, distribute, or broadcast or cause or
  permit  to be advertised, printed, displayed, published, distributed, or
  broadcasted, in any manner whatsoever any  statement  or  representation
  with regard to the rates, terms, or conditions for the loaning of money,
  credit,  goods,  or  things  in  action  which  is  false, misleading or
  deceptive, or in violation of chapter  three  of  the  act  of  congress
  entitled  "Truth in Lending Act" and the regulations thereunder, as such
  act and regulations may from time to time be amended.
    (b) No licensee shall make,  directly  or  indirectly,  orally  or  in
  writing,  by  any method, practice or device, any representation that it
  is licensed under  this  chapter,  except  a  representation  that  such
  licensee  is  licensed  as  a  licensed  lender  by  the  New York state
  department of financial services.
    2. No licensee shall take a lien upon real estate as security for  any
  loan  under  the  provisions  of  this  article,  except such lien as is
  created by law upon the recording of a judgment.
    3. No licensee shall conduct the business of making  loans  under  the
  provisions of this article within any office, room, or place of business
  in  which  any  other  business  is  solicited  or  engaged  in,  or  in
  association or conjunction therewith, except (a) a licensee  may,  after
  obtaining  any  required  license,  conduct  on  its premises businesses
  authorized under articles eleven-B, twelve-B, twelve-D and thirteen-B of
  this  chapter,  or  (b)  as  may  be  authorized  in  writing   by   the
  superintendent  upon a finding that such other business would not result
  in evasions of this article or of the  rules  and  regulations  lawfully
  made hereunder.
    4.  No licensee shall transact such business or make any loan provided
  for by this article under any other  name  or  at  any  other  place  of
  business  than that named in the license, except as may be authorized by
  the superintendent.


::: 351:restrictions_on_loans_subject_to_the_provisions_of_this_article_interest_other_charges.html
 
    &#167; 351.  Restrictions  on  loans  subject  to  the  provisions  of this
  article; interest; other charges. 1. Every licensee hereunder  may  loan
  any  sum of money not exceeding the maximum principal amounts prescribed
  in section three hundred forty of this article, and may charge, contract
  for, and receive thereon interest at the rate or rates agreed to by  the
  licensee and the borrower. Such interest may either (a) be calculated on
  the  actual  unpaid  principal  balances of the loan or in the case of a
  loan commitment from the date of each advance thereunder for the  actual
  time  outstanding, according to a generally accepted actuarial method at
  a fixed or variable rate and in accordance with the  provisions  of  the
  evidence  of  the indebtedness or (b) precomputed under subdivision five
  of this section.
    2. On any loan with a variable rate of interest made pursuant to  this
  subdivision,  the  rate  shall be determined at regular intervals as set
  forth in the evidence  of  indebtedness  and  in  accordance  with  such
  regulations  as the superintendent of financial services shall prescribe
  but said rate shall not vary more often than once  in  any  three  month
  period  and  shall  be  based  on  a published index that is (a) readily
  available, (b) independently verifiable, (c) beyond the control  of  the
  licensee, and (d) approved by the superintendent.
    The  superintendent  of  financial  services  shall adopt regulations,
  including but not limited  to:  (i)  providing  for  disclosure  to  the
  borrower  by  the licensee of the circumstances under which the rate may
  increase, any limitations on the increase, the effect of an increase and
  an example of the payment terms that would result from an increase; (ii)
  providing for disclosure to the borrower by the licensee of a history of
  the fluctuations of the index over a  reasonable  period  of  time;  and
  (iii)  providing  for  notice to the borrower from the licensee prior to
  any rate increase or change in the terms of payment.
    3. Loans may be granted under an open end or closed end loan agreement
  providing for a fixed or variable rate.
    4. Interest, consideration, or charges for the use of money shall  not
  be  deducted  or  received  in  advance  and shall be computed on unpaid
  principal balances. Such interest, consideration, or charges  shall  not
  be  compounded; provided that, if part or all of the principal amount of
  any loan contract is the unpaid principal balance of a prior  loan,  the
  unpaid  interest,  consideration or charges for the use of money on such
  prior loan which have accrued within sixty days  before  the  making  of
  such  loan contract may be incorporated as interest bearing principal in
  the principal amount of such loan contract, and for the purposes of this
  subdivision  any  such  new  loan  shall  be  deemed  a  separate   loan
  transaction.
    5.   When   a   closed-end   loan   agreement  requires  repayment  in
  substantially equal and consecutive monthly  installments  of  principal
  and  interest  combined,  the  interest may be precomputed at the agreed
  rate on scheduled unpaid principal balances according to  the  terms  of
  the  agreement  and  added  to  the  principal amount of the loan. Every
  payment  may  be  applied  to  the  combined  total  of  principal   and
  precomputed  interest  until  the  loan  agreement is fully paid and the
  acceptance or payment of interest on loans made under the provisions  of
  this subdivision shall not be deemed to constitute payment, deduction or
  receipt  thereof  in  advance  nor compounding under subdivision four of
  this  section.  Such  precomputed  interest  shall  be  subject  to  the
  following adjustments:
    (a)  If  the  loan  agreement  is prepaid in full by cash, a new loan,
  refinancing or otherwise before the final installment date, the borrower
  shall receive a refund of (i) the unearned portion of the  interest  the
  amount  of  which  portion  shall be determined according to a generally
  accepted actuarial method; provided, however,  that  if  the  amount  of
  precomputed  interest  (A)  is less than ten dollars, no refund shall be
  required; or (B) exceeds the sum of ten dollars and the earned  interest
  is  less  than  that  amount, the licensee may retain such an additional
  amount as will bring the earned interest to ten dollars and  refund  the
  remainder,  and provided further, that unless the loan is refinanced, no
  refund shall be required if it amounts to less than one dollar; and (ii)
  if a charge was made to the borrower for credit  related  insurance  for
  insuring  the borrower the excess of the charge to the borrower therefor
  over the insurance charges paid or payable  by  the  licensee,  if  such
  insurance  charges were paid or payable by the licensee periodically, or
  the refund for such insurance charges  received  or  receivable  by  the
  licensee,  if  such  premium  was  paid  or payable in a lump sum by the
  licensee, provided that no such refund shall be required if  it  amounts
  to  less  than  one dollar. In the event (i) the maturity of the loan is
  accelerated due to the default of the borrower or otherwise and judgment
  is obtained, or (ii) repayment is made pursuant to  any  credit  related
  insurance  policy  for  which  a charge was made to the borrower for the
  premium thereon, the borrower or legal representative, as the  case  may
  be,  shall  be  entitled  to  the  same refund of interest and insurance
  charges as if the  loan  had  been  prepaid  in  full  on  the  date  of
  acceleration or repayment.
    (b)  (i)  In the event of default of more than ten days in the payment
  of any scheduled installment, the licensee  may  charge  and  collect  a
  default charge not exceeding five percent of the installment in default.
  This charge may not be collected more than once for the same default and
  may be collected at the time of such default or at any time thereafter.
    (ii)  After  the  final  due date or upon acceleration of maturity for
  default, the licensee may charge interest at the original agreed rate on
  actual unpaid balances if the loan agreement so provides.
    (c) If payment of all unpaid installments on which no  default  charge
  has  been charged and collected is deferred one or more full months, and
  if the loan agreement so provides, the licensee may charge  and  collect
  an amount which shall be equal to the difference between the refund that
  would be required for prepayment in full as of the scheduled due date of
  the  first  deferred  installment and the amount which would be required
  for prepayment in full as of one month prior to said date, multiplied by
  the number of months in the deferment period. The  deferment  period  is
  that  period in which no scheduled payment has been made and in which no
  payment is required by reason of  the  deferment.  Such  charge  may  be
  collected  at  the  time  of  deferment  or may be collected at any time
  thereafter. If a refund of precomputed interest  is  required  during  a
  deferment  period  the  borrower  shall  also  receive  a  refund of the
  deferment charge for the number of months remaining in said period,  for
  which  purpose  a  portion  of  a  month exceeding fifteen days shall be
  deemed a month.
    (d) If two or more installments or parts thereof are  in  default  for
  five  days or more, the licensee may, if the loan agreement so provides,
  elect to convert the loan  from  a  precomputed  one  to  one  in  which
  interest  is paid on actual unpaid balances. In this event, the licensee
  shall make the same refund of interest as if the loan  were  prepaid  in
  full  on the scheduled payment due date preceding the date of conversion
  and thereafter may charge interest at the agreed rate, by the  actuarial
  method, on actual unpaid balances for the time actually outstanding.
    6.  * (a) In addition to the interest, consideration, or charges above
  specified, no further or other  charge  or  amount  whatsoever  for  any
  examination,  service,  brokerage, commission, expense, fee, or bonus or
  other thing or  otherwise  shall  be  directly  or  indirectly  charged,
  contracted  for,  or received, except the premium or identifiable charge
  for insurance authorized by section three hundred  fifty-seven  of  this
  article;  the  lawful fees, if any, actually and necessarily paid out by
  the  licensee  to any public officer for filing, recording, or releasing
  in any public office any instrument securing the loan, which fees may be
  collected when the loan is made or at any time thereafter or  non-filing
  insurance  premiums  not  in  excess of seven dollars in lieu of filing,
  recording or releasing any such instrument; an annual fee  on  open  end
  loans  authorized by the superintendent and made pursuant to subdivision
  three of this section, provided, however, that no such fee shall  exceed
  an  amount  equal  to  one  percent  of  the amount of the loan or fifty
  dollars, whichever is less; and a fee, not  to  exceed  the  amount  set
  forth  in  section 5-328 of the general obligations law, for return by a
  depository institution  of  a  dishonored  check,  negotiable  order  of
  withdrawal, or share draft.
    * NB Effective until June 30, 2015
    * (a)  In  addition  to  the interest, consideration, or charges above
  specified, no further or other  charge  or  amount  whatsoever  for  any
  examination,  service,  brokerage, commission, expense, fee, or bonus or
  other thing or  otherwise  shall  be  directly  or  indirectly  charged,
  contracted  for,  or received, except the premium or identifiable charge
  for insurance authorized by section three hundred  fifty-seven  of  this
  article;  the  lawful fees, if any, actually and necessarily paid out by
  the licensee to any public officer for filing, recording,  or  releasing
  in any public office any instrument securing the loan, which fees may be
  collected  when the loan is made or at any time thereafter or non-filing
  insurance premiums not in excess of seven dollars  in  lieu  of  filing,
  recording or releasing any such instrument; and a fee, not to exceed the
  amount  set  forth  in section 5-328 of the general obligations law, for
  return by a depository institution of  a  dishonored  check,  negotiable
  order of withdrawal, or share draft.
    * NB Effective June 30, 2015
    (b)  Any  licensee  which  knowingly  receives,  reserves or charges a
  greater rate of interest than that  authorized  by  this  section  shall
  forfeit  the  entire  interest which the note, or other evidence of debt
  carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon, and  if  a
  greater  rate  of  interest has been paid, the person paying the same or
  his legal representative may recover from the licensee twice the  entire
  amount of interest thus paid.
    * (c)  In addition to other such information as the superintendent may
  require, any licensee which charges an  annual  fee  on  open  end  loan
  accounts  shall  annually report, in a manner and form prescribed by the
  superintendent,  information  to  the  department  on  open   end   loan
  borrowers,  which  shall  include: average annual income of borrowers at
  the time of the loan, average amount of loans outstanding at the end  of
  each  calendar  year, average interest charged, average amount of annual
  fees, and geographic distribution of loans made by the licensee.
    * NB Repealed June 30, 2015


::: 352:acts_required_of_licensees_acts_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 352.  Acts  required  of  licensees; acts prohibited. Every licensee
  shall:
    Deliver to the borrower at the time any loan is made or prior  to  the
  first  advance  under  an  open-end  loan  agreement a statement, in the
  English language showing in  clear  and  distinct  terms  the  name  and
  address of the borrower and of the licensee and all items required to be
  disclosed by the act of congress entitled "Truth in Lending Act" and the
  regulations  thereunder,  as  such  act and regulations may from time to
  time be amended.
    For each cash payment made on account of any closed-end loan, give  to
  the  person  making  it  at  the  time  the payment is made, a plain and
  complete receipt containing the information required by  regulations  of
  the superintendent.
    Permit  payment  to  be  made  in  advance  in  any amount on any loan
  agreement at any time, but the licensee may initially apply such payment
  to all interest and other charges due to the date of such payment.
    Upon repayment of the loan in full, mark  indelibly  every  obligation
  signed  by  the  borrower  or  a  copy  thereof  with the word "paid" or
  "cancelled", and release any mortgage or security  agreement  no  longer
  securing  an  obligation of the borrower, restore any pledge, cancel and
  return any note or a copy thereof, and cancel and return any  assignment
  or  a  copy  thereof given to the licensee by the borrower.  An open-end
  loan shall not be deemed to be repaid in full for  this  purpose  unless
  any  balance  is paid in full and the borrower relinquishes all power to
  receive further advances under the contract and makes a written  request
  for  the  release  of  all collateral for the loan. Every licensee which
  holds collateral of a borrower shall be fully liable for the  return  of
  the collateral upon payment of the indebtedness in full.
    No  licensee  shall  take  any  confession of judgment or any power of
  attorney running to himself or to any third person to  confess  judgment
  or to appear for the borrower in a judicial proceeding.
    No  licensee  shall take any instrument in which blanks are left to be
  filled in after execution.


::: 353:limitation_on_licensees_charges_on_certain_loans.html
 
    &#167; 353.  Limitation on licensee's charges on certain loans. No licensee
  shall directly or  indirectly  charge,  contract  for,  or  receive  any
  interest,  discount, or consideration upon the loan, use, or forbearance
  of money, goods, or things in action, or upon the loan, use, or sale  of
  credit,  of  the  amount  or  value  of  more  than  the maximum amounts
  prescribed in section three hundred forty of this article  greater  than
  the  rate permitted by section 5-501 of the general obligations law. The
  foregoing prohibition shall also apply to any licensee which permits any
  person, as borrower  or  as  endorser,  guarantor,  or  surety  for  any
  borrower  or  otherwise,  to owe directly or contingently or both to the
  licensee at any time more than the maximum amounts prescribed in section
  three hundred forty of this article.


::: 354:restrictions_on_assignments_of_compensation_for_services.html


::: 355:solicitation_of_loans.html
 
    &#167; 355.  Solicitation  of  loans.  1.  Any  loan  made  by a person not
  licensed under this article to a resident of this state, in the  amount,
  not  exceeding  the  maximum amounts prescribed in section three hundred
  forty of this article, where solicitation of the loan  was  made  within
  this  state,  and  where  the interest, discount, consideration or other
  charge contracted for or received exceeds that permitted to  a  licensee
  under the laws of this state shall be void, and the lender shall have no
  right   to   collect  or  receive  any  principal,  interest  or  charge
  whatsoever. No action to enforce  a  loan  made  in  violation  of  this
  subdivision  may  be  maintained,  even though the amount demanded to be
  paid in such action does not exceed that permitted to a  licensee  under
  the laws of this state.
    2.  For purposes of this article, solicitation of a loan shall include
  any solicitation, request or inducement to enter into  a  loan  made  by
  means  of  or through a direct mailing, television or radio announcement
  or advertisement, advertisement in a  newspaper,  magazine,  leaflet  or
  pamphlet  distributed  within  this state, or visual display within this
  state,  whether  or  not  such  solicitation,  request   or   inducement
  constitutes an offer to enter into a contract.


::: 356:restrictions_on_certain_loans_by_nonlicensees_interests_other_charges_loans_made_outside_this_state.html
 
    &#167; 356.  Restrictions  on  certain  loans  by non-licensees, interests,
  other charges; loans made outside this state. No person or other entity,
  other than a licensee under this article, shall directly  or  indirectly
  charge,   contract   for,   or   receive   any  interest,  discount,  or
  consideration greater than the person or other entity would be permitted
  by law to charge if it were not a licensee hereunder  upon  a  loan  not
  exceeding  the maximum amounts prescribed in section three hundred forty
  of this article.
    The foregoing prohibition shall apply to any person  or  other  entity
  who  or  which,  by any device, subterfuge, or pretense whatsoever shall
  charge, contract for, or receive  greater  interest,  consideration,  or
  charges  than is authorized by the laws of this state for any such loan,
  use, or forbearance of money, goods, or things in action or for any such
  loan, use, or sale of credit.
    Any loan in an amount not exceeding the maximum amounts prescribed  in
  section  three hundred forty of this article for which a greater rate of
  interest, consideration, or charges than is permitted  by  the  laws  of
  this state has been charged, contracted for, or received, wherever made,
  shall  not  be  enforced  in this state and every person or other entity
  participating therein in this state shall be subject to  the  provisions
  of  this article.   An action to enforce any such loan made in any other
  state to a person then a resident of that state, who now resides in this
  state may be maintained  in  this  state  if  the  amount  of  interest,
  discount,  consideration  or  other charge for such loan, demanded to be
  paid in such action, does not exceed that permitted  to  a  licensee  by
  section  three  hundred fifty-one of this article for a loan of the same
  amount repayable in the same manner.


::: 357:insurance.html
 
    &#167;  357. Insurance. 1. The licensee may require a borrower, on loans of
  two hundred and fifty dollars or more, excluding insurance premiums  and
  precomputed  interest,  to  insure  tangible  personal  property, except
  household goods, taken as security for a loan  against  any  substantial
  risk  of  loss,  damage  or  destruction for an amount not to exceed the
  lesser of the reasonable value of the property insured or the  principal
  amount  of  the loan, and for the customary insurance term approximating
  the term of the loan contract. The policy may insure the interest of the
  borrower as well as the interest of the licensee. A  policy  covering  a
  motor  vehicle  securing  the  loan may also insure the borrower against
  liability for bodily injury and  property  damage,  but  such  liability
  insurance  shall  be  at  the  option  of  the borrower and shall not be
  required by the licensee. The premiums for all such insurance shall  not
  exceed the premiums chargeable in accordance with rate filings made with
  the  superintendent  of  financial  services  for  such insurance by the
  insurer. Such insurance shall be written by, or through, a duly licensed
  insurance agent or broker, or shall be provided directly  by  a  company
  qualified to do business in this state.
    2. For purposes of this section, the term "household goods" shall mean
  clothing,  furniture,  appliances, one radio and one television, linens,
  china, crockery, kitchenware, and personal  effects  (including  wedding
  rings)  owned  by  the consumer and his or her dependents, but shall not
  include works of art, other electronic  entertainment  equipment,  items
  acquired as antiques, and other jewelry.
    3. When a licensee provides credit life insurance, credit accident and
  health  insurance,  or credit unemployment insurance, or credit property
  insurance pursuant to section two thousand three hundred  forty  of  the
  insurance  law,  or  any combination thereof with respect to one or more
  borrowers, such licensee may collect from  the  borrower  a  premium  or
  identifiable  charge  which  shall  not  exceed  the  premium  rates  or
  identifiable charges chargeable in accordance  with  rate  filings  made
  with  the superintendent of financial services for such insurance by the
  insurer, subject to  a  refund  of  the  insurance  charge  computed  as
  provided  in  paragraph (a) of subdivision five of section three hundred
  fifty-one of this article, in the event of prepayment  by  cash,  a  new
  loan, refinancing or otherwise. Only one such amount may be collected in
  connection with any loan contract irrespective of the number of obligors
  and only one obligor need be insured.
    4.  The  insurance  authorized  by this section, with the exception of
  insurance provided under group insurance policies, may be written by  or
  arranged  through the licensee or an affiliate, associate or employee of
  the licensee only if such licensee, affiliate, associate or employee  is
  a  duly  licensed  insurance  agent  or  broker,  provided,  however, no
  licensee shall decline new or existing insurance which meets or  exceeds
  the  standards  set forth in this section, nor prevent any borrower from
  obtaining such insurance coverage from other sources.
    5. If a borrower procures such insurance by or through a licensee, the
  statement required by section three hundred fifty-two  of  this  article
  shall  disclose  the cost or rate of charge to the borrower and the type
  of insurance, and the licensee  shall  cause  to  be  delivered  to  the
  borrower  a  copy of the policy, certificate, or other evidence therefor
  within a reasonable time.
    6. The insurance authorized  by  this  section  and  all  benefits  or
  returns  therefrom  accruing  to  the  licensee  or  to  any  affiliate,
  associate or employee of the licensee shall not  be  prohibited  by  any
  other provision of this article.
    7. No insurance shall be required, requested, sold or offered for sale
  in  connection  with  any loan made under this article, except as and to
  the extent authorized by this section or as provided in subdivision  six
  of section three hundred fifty-one of this article.
    If  the  borrowers on any loan are husband and wife, joint credit life
  insurance and joint credit accident and health insurance may  be  issued
  on such loan pursuant to this section.


::: 358:penalties.html
 
    &#167; 358.  Penalties.  Any person or other entity including the officers,
  directors,  agents,  and  employees  thereof,  which  shall  violate  or
  participate  in  the violation of any of the provisions of section three
  hundred forty of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.


::: 359:authority_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 359.  Authority  of  superintendent.  The  superintendent  is hereby
  authorized and empowered to make such general rules and regulations, and
  such specific rulings, demands, and findings as may be necessary for the
  proper conduct of the business authorized and licensed under and for the
  enforcement of this article, in addition  hereto  and  not  inconsistent
  herewith.


::: 36-a:reports_of_lending_by_banking_organizations.html
 
    &#167; 36-a.   Reports   of   lending   by   banking   organizations.   The
  superintendent may require every banking  organization  to  submit  from
  time  to  time  data  on  its mortgage loans, home improvement loans, or
  other loans and data on its deposits.


::: 360:short_title.html
 
    &#167; 360.  Short  title.  This article shall be known and may be cited as
  the New York licensed lender law.


::: 361:severability.html
 
    &#167; 361.   Severability.  If  any  provision  of  this  article  or  the
  application thereof to  any  person  or  circumstances  is  held  to  be
  invalid,   such   invalidity   shall  not  affect  other  provisions  or
  applications of this article which  can  be  given  effect  without  the
  invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
  article are severable.


::: 366:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 366.  Definitions.  When used in this article. 1. The term "licensed
  casher of checks"  means  any  individual,  partnership,  unincorporated
  association  or  corporation  duly  licensed  by  the  superintendent of
  financial services to engage in business pursuant to the  provisions  of
  this article.
    2.  The  term  "licensee"  means  a  licensed casher of checks, drafts
  and/or money orders.
    3. The term "mobile unit" means any vehicle  or  other  movable  means
  from  which the business of cashing checks, drafts or money orders is to
  be conducted.


::: 367:license_requirements_fees_capital_requirements.html
 
    &#167; 367. License requirements; fees; capital requirements. 1. No person,
  partnership,  association or corporation shall engage in the business of
  cashing checks, drafts or money orders for a consideration without first
  obtaining a license from the superintendent.
    2. Application for such license shall be in writing, under  oath,  and
  in  the  form  prescribed  by  the superintendent, and shall contain the
  name, and the address both of the residence and place  of  business,  of
  the  applicant, and if the applicant is a co-partnership or association,
  of every member thereof, and if  a  corporation,  of  each  officer  and
  director thereof; also, if the business is to be conducted at a specific
  address,  the  address  at which the business is to be conducted, and if
  the business is to be conducted from a mobile unit, the New  York  state
  registration  number or other identification of such mobile unit and the
  area in which the applicant proposes to operate such  mobile  unit;  and
  also such further information as the superintendent may require.
    3.  Such applicant at the time of making such application shall pay to
  the superintendent a fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of
  this chapter for investigating the application. Any licensee  requesting
  a  change  of  address, shall at the time of making such request, pay to
  the superintendent a fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of
  this chapter for investigating the new address; provided, however,  that
  the   superintendent   may,   in  his  or  her  discretion,  waive  such
  investigation fee if warranted, and provided further, that no fee  shall
  be payable for the relocation of a limited station.
    4.   Every   applicant  shall  prove,  in  form  satisfactory  to  the
  superintendent that he or it has available for  the  operation  of  such
  business,  for  each  location and for each mobile unit specified in the
  application, liquid assets of at least ten thousand dollars,  and  every
  licensee  shall continuously maintain for the operation of such business
  for each location and for each mobile unit liquid assets of at least ten
  thousand dollars.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this
  subdivision,  the  superintendent,  upon application by an applicant and
  for good cause shown, may permit a reduction from ten  thousand  dollars
  to not less than five thousand dollars of minimum liquid assets required
  for each location.


::: 369:conditions_precedent_to_issuing_license_issuance_and_filing_of_license_posting_license.html
 
    &#167; 369. Conditions precedent to issuing license; issuance and filing of
  license;  posting  license. 1. If the superintendent shall find that the
  financial responsibility, experience, character, and general fitness  of
  the  applicant,  and  of  the  members  thereof  if  the  applicant be a
  co-partnership or association, and of the officers and directors thereof
  if the applicant be a corporation, are such as to command the confidence
  of the community and  to  warrant  belief  that  the  business  will  be
  operated  honestly,  fairly, and efficiently within the purposes of this
  article, and if the superintendent shall find that the granting of  such
  application  will  promote  the convenience and advantage of the area in
  which such business is to be conducted, and if the superintendent  shall
  find that the applicant has available for the operation of such business
  for  each location and for each mobile unit specified in the application
  liquid assets of at least ten thousand dollars, the superintendent shall
  thereupon execute a license  in  duplicate  to  permit  the  cashing  of
  checks,  drafts  and  money  orders in accordance with the provisions of
  this  article  at  the  location  or  in  the  area  specified  in  such
  application.  In  finding  whether  the  application  will  promote  the
  convenience and  advantage  to  the  public,  the  superintendent  shall
  determine  whether  there  is a community need for a new licensee in the
  proposed area to be served. No license shall be issued to  an  applicant
  for  a  license,  at  a location to be licensed which is closer than one
  thousand five hundred eighty-four feet (three-tenths of a mile) from  an
  existing  licensee,  except  with  the  written consent of such existing
  licensee or pursuant to  subdivision  three  of  section  three  hundred
  seventy  of this article, subject to any restriction or condition as the
  superintendent may promulgate  by  regulation;  provided,  however,  the
  superintendent  may permit a location to be licensed that is closer than
  three-tenths of a mile from an existing licensee provided such applicant
  engages in the cashing of checks, drafts or money orders only for payees
  of such checks, drafts or money  orders  that  are  other  than  natural
  persons at the location to be licensed and such applicant was engaged in
  the  cashing  of such checks, drafts or money orders for payees that are
  other than natural persons at such location on or before the  fourteenth
  day of July, two thousand four, and provided further that upon licensing
  any  such  location  by  the superintendent, such license as it pertains
  solely to such location shall not be affected thereafter by  any  change
  of  control  of such license pursuant to section three hundred seventy-a
  of this article, provided that  the  licensee  continues  thereafter  to
  engage at that location in the cashing of checks, drafts or money orders
  only for payees that are other than natural persons and provided further
  that  such  license  shall  bear  a legend stating that such location is
  restricted to the cashing of checks, drafts or  money  orders  only  for
  payees  that  are other than natural persons. The three-tenths of a mile
  distance requirement as set forth in this section  shall  not  apply  in
  cases where the existing licensee is a restricted location as authorized
  in  the  preceding  sentence,  or  is  any  other licensed location that
  engages solely in the cashing of checks, drafts or money orders only for
  payees that are  other  than  natural  persons.  For  purposes  of  this
  section,  such  distance  shall be measured on a straight line along the
  street between the nearest point  of  the  store  fronts  of  the  check
  cashing  facilities.  The  primary  business  of  the  licensee,  at the
  location to be licensed, shall be financial services. The superintendent
  shall transmit one copy of  such  license  to  the  applicant  and  file
  another  in  the office of the department. Notwithstanding the foregoing
  provisions of this subdivision, the superintendent, upon application  by
  an  applicant  and for good cause shown, may permit a reduction from ten
  thousand dollars to not less  than  five  thousand  dollars  of  minimum
  liquid assets required for each location.
    2.  Such  license  shall  state  the  name of the licensee; and if the
  licensee is a co-partnership or association, the names  of  the  members
  thereof;  and  if  the  licensee  is  a  corporation,  the  date  of its
  incorporation; and if the business is to  be  conducted  at  a  specific
  address,  the  address at which such business is to be conducted; and if
  the business is to be conducted through the use of a  mobile  unit,  the
  New  York  state  registration  number  or  other identification of such
  mobile unit and the area in which such mobile unit is authorized  to  do
  business.
    3.  Such  license  shall  be kept conspicuously posted in the place of
  business of the licensee or, in the case of a  mobile  unit,  upon  such
  mobile unit. Such license shall not be transferable or assignable.
    4.  Such  license  shall  remain  in full force and effect until it is
  surrendered by the licensee or revoked or suspended as provided in  this
  article.
    5.  If  the superintendent shall find that the applicant fails to meet
  any of the conditions set forth in subdivision one of this  section,  he
  shall  not  issue such license, and he shall notify the applicant of the
  denial.  If an application is denied or  withdrawn,  the  superintendent
  shall  retain  the investigation fee to cover the costs of investigating
  the application and return the license fee to the applicant.
    6. The superintendent may refuse to issue a license pursuant  to  this
  article  if  he  shall  find  that the applicant, or any person who is a
  director, officer, partner, agent, employee or  substantial  stockholder
  of  the applicant, (a) has been convicted of a crime in any jurisdiction
  or (b) is associating or consorting with any person who has, or  persons
  who  have,  been  convicted  of a crime or crimes in any jurisdiction or
  jurisdictions; provided, however,  that  the  superintendent  shall  not
  issue  such a license if he shall find that the applicant, or any person
  who is a director, officer,  partner,  agent,  employee  or  substantial
  stockholder  of  the  applicant,  has  been convicted of a felony in any
  jurisdiction or of a crime which, if committed within this state,  would
  constitute  a  felony  under  the laws thereof. For the purposes of this
  article, a person shall be deemed to have been convicted of a  crime  if
  such person shall have pleaded guilty to a charge thereof before a court
  or  magistrate,  or shall have been found guilty thereof by the decision
  or judgment of a court or magistrate  or  by  the  verdict  of  a  jury,
  irrespective of the pronouncement of sentence or the suspension thereof,
  unless such plea of guilty, or such decision, judgment or verdict, shall
  have  been set aside, reversed or otherwise abrogated by lawful judicial
  process or unless the person convicted of the crime shall have  received
  a  pardon  therefor  from  the  president  of  the  United States or the
  governor or other pardoning authority  in  the  jurisdiction  where  the
  conviction  was had, or shall have received a certificate of relief from
  disabilities or a  certificate  of  good  conduct  pursuant  to  article
  twenty-three  of  the correction law to remove the disability under this
  article because of such conviction. The term "substantial  stockholder,"
  as used in this subdivision, shall be deemed to refer to a person owning
  or  controlling ten per centum or more of the total outstanding stock of
  the corporation in which such person  is  a  stockholder.  In  making  a
  determination  pursuant  to  this  subdivision, the superintendent shall
  require fingerprinting of the  applicant.  Such  fingerprints  shall  be
  submitted  to  the  division  of  criminal  justice services for a state
  criminal history record check, as defined in subdivision one of  section
  three thousand thirty-five of the education law, and may be submitted to
  the  federal  bureau  of  investigation  for a national criminal history
  record check.
    7.  No  license  pursuant  to  this  article  shall  be  issued to any
  applicant to do business at the place specified in  the  application  as
  the  place  where  the business is to be conducted if, within the twelve
  months preceding such application,  a  license  to  engage  in  business
  pursuant to this article at such place shall have been revoked.


::: 36:examinations_right_of_inspection_penalties_for_refusing_to_permit_examination.html
 
    &#167; 36.  Examinations;  right  of  inspection; penalties for refusing to
  permit examination. 1.  The  superintendent  shall  have  the  power  to
  examine  every  banking organization, every bank holding company and any
  non-banking subsidiary thereof (as such terms "bank holding company" and
  "non-banking subsidiary" are defined in article three-A of this chapter)
  and every licensed lender at any time prior to its dissolution  whenever
  in his judgment such examination is necessary or advisable.
    2.  At least once in each calendar year upon such date or dates within
  each such period as in his or her discretion he or she deems proper, the
  superintendent shall cause every banking organization  to  be  examined;
  provided, however, that:
    (a)  the  provisions of this subdivision shall not be applicable to an
  investment  company  unless  (i)  such  investment  company   has   been
  authorized  by  the  superintendent  of  financial  services  to receive
  deposits, in accordance with the terms of subdivision three  of  section
  five hundred eight of this chapter, (ii) a bank or trust company, or any
  two or more of such organizations, shall own an aggregate of twenty-five
  per  centum  or more of the capital stock of such investment company, or
  (iii) such investment company is a corporation which, under the terms of
  subdivision six of this section, is deemed  for  the  purposes  of  this
  section  to  be  a  corporation  affiliated  with  a  corporate  banking
  organization, and
    (b) the superintendent may extend the  examination  interval  from  at
  least once in each calendar year to at least once in each eighteen month
  period if the banking organization to be examined:
    (1) has total assets of less than two hundred fifty million dollars;
    (2)  is  well-capitalized,  which  for  purposes  of this paragraph is
  defined as having  capital  which  significantly  exceeds  the  required
  minimum  level  for  each  relevant  capital  measure  or as having such
  capital as the superintendent shall otherwise define by regulation;
    (3) at its most recent examination, was found to be  well-managed  and
  its composite condition was found to be outstanding or good;
    (4)  is  not  currently  subject to a formal enforcement proceeding or
  order by the superintendent, the federal deposit  insurance  corporation
  or any other federal banking agency; and
    (5) has not been acquired by any person during the twelve month period
  in which an examination would be required but for this paragraph, and
    (c)  the  superintendent  may  modify  the  examination  intervals  as
  prescribed by this subdivision to the extent  the  superintendent  deems
  appropriate,  in  his  or  her  sole  discretion, in order to obtain the
  efficient  use  of  the  personal  and  nonpersonal  resources  of   the
  department   by  maximizing  coordination  with  identical  or  parallel
  examinations having differing or varying intervals performed by  federal
  banking   regulators,   whether   such  examinations  are  performed  in
  conjunction with the department or on an alternating schedule with  such
  federal  banking  regulators;  provided,  that nothing in this paragraph
  shall be deemed in any  manner  to  lessen  or  modify  the  requirement
  imposed pursuant to section ten of this article.
    3. On every such examination of any banking organization inquiry shall
  be  made as to (a) its financial condition, (b) the security afforded to
  those by whom  its  engagements  are  held,  (c)  the  policies  of  its
  management,  (d) whether the requirements of law have been complied with
  in the administration of its affairs, and (e) such other matters as  the
  superintendent  may prescribe. Examination of a licensed lender shall be
  made  only  for  the  purposes  set  forth  in  section  three   hundred
  forty-eight of this chapter.
    4.  The  superintendent  shall  also have power at any time to examine
  every agency, branch or office located in  this  state  of  any  foreign
  banking  corporation,  including,  but not limited to, all of the books,
  accounts or records of every agency, branch or office  located  in  this
  state  of  such foreign banking corporation as well as all of the books,
  accounts  or  records  maintained in this state of any agency, branch or
  office not located in this state of such foreign banking corporation for
  the purpose of ascertaining whether it has violated any law and for  any
  other purpose.
    5.  The  superintendent  shall  have  the  power  to make such special
  investigations as he shall  deem  necessary  to  determine  whether  any
  individual,  partnership,  unincorporated association or corporation has
  violated any of the provisions  of  this  chapter;  and  to  the  extent
  necessary  for  this  purpose the superintendent shall have the power to
  examine all relevant books, records, accounts and documents.
    6. For the purpose of determining the financial condition of a banking
  organization, the superintendent shall have the power, when  in  his  or
  her  judgment  it  is necessary or advisable, to examine corporations or
  any other entity affiliated with  any  such  banking  organization.  The
  following are deemed for the purposes of this section to be corporations
  or other entities affiliated with a banking organization:
    (a)  (i)  Any  corporation or other entity, the capital stock of which
  such  banking  organization  directly  or  indirectly,  or   through   a
  subsidiary  or  subsidiaries, owns or controls ten per centum or more of
  the voting shares of such corporation  or  other  entity;  or  (ii)  any
  corporation  or  other entity the election of a majority of the board of
  directors of which is in any manner directly or indirectly controlled by
  such banking organization; or (iii) any corporation or other entity  the
  management  or  policies  over  which  the  banking organization has the
  power, directly or indirectly, to exercise a controlling  influence,  as
  determined  by  the  superintendent;  provided,  however,  the foregoing
  definition of affiliate corporations and other entities shall not  apply
  to  small  business  investment  companies  as  defined in and operating
  pursuant to the  provisions  of  an  act  of  congress  entitled  "Small
  Business  Investment Act of 1958," and such companies shall be deemed to
  be  corporations  affiliated  with  the  banking  organization  for  the
  purposes  of  this subdivision, if such banking organization directly or
  indirectly owns or controls twenty-five per centum or more of the voting
  shares or more than twenty-five per centum of the shares voted  for  the
  election  of  directors  at  the  preceding annual meeting of such small
  business investment company;  or  any  such  small  business  investment
  company  the election of at least twenty-five per centum of the board of
  directors of which  is  in  any  other  manner  directly  or  indirectly
  controlled by such banking organization; or
    (b)  Any  corporation or other entity which directly or indirectly, or
  through a subsidiary or subsidiaries, owns or controls ten per centum or
  more of the voting shares of capital stock of such banking organization;
  or any corporation or other entity  which  in  any  manner  directly  or
  indirectly controls the election of a majority of the board of directors
  of  such  banking  organization;  or  with  respect to the management or
  policies of  such  banking  organization  has  the  power,  directly  or
  indirectly,  to  exercise  a controlling influence, as determined by the
  superintendent.
    6-a. (a) For the purposes of determining the financial condition of  a
  banking  organization,  the superintendent shall have the power, when in
  his or  her  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable,  to  examine  a
  non-banking   subsidiary   of   a  corporation  or  other  entity  which
  corporation or other entity, pursuant to paragraph  (b)  of  subdivision
  six  of  this  section,  is  deemed  to  be  an  affiliate  of a banking
  organization.
    (b) For the purposes of  this  subdivision,  a  "subsidiary"  of  such
  affiliated corporation or other entity shall mean:
    (1)  Any  corporation  or other entity ten per centum or more of whose
  voting stock is directly or  indirectly,  or  through  a  subsidiary  or
  subsidiaries,  owned,  controlled,  or  held  with  power to vote, by an
  affiliated corporation or other entity; or (2) any corporation or  other
  entity,  the  election of a majority of whose directors is controlled in
  any manner by an affiliated corporation or  other  entity;  or  (3)  any
  corporation  or  other  entity,  ten  per centum or more of whose voting
  stock is directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to
  vote, by a trustee or trustees for the benefit of  the  stockholders  or
  members  of  an  affiliated  corporation  or  other  entity;  or (4) any
  corporation or other entity, at least ten per centum of the voting stock
  of  which  is  directly  or  indirectly,  or  through  a  subsidiary  or
  subsidiaries,  owned,  controlled  or  held  with  power  to  vote  by a
  combination of an affiliated  corporation  or  other  entity  and  by  a
  trustee  or  trustees  for the benefit of the stockholders or members of
  such  affiliated  corporation  or  other  entity;  or  (5)  any  entity,
  corporate  or unincorporated, with respect to the management or policies
  of which such affiliated corporation or  other  entity  has  the  power,
  directly   or  indirectly,  to  exercise  a  controlling  influence,  as
  determined by the superintendent, after notice  and  opportunity  for  a
  hearing. For the purposes of this subdivision, voting stock shall not be
  deemed  to  include  voting  stock  owned by the United States or by any
  corporation wholly owned by the United States.
    (c) A "non-banking subsidiary" for the purposes  of  this  subdivision
  means one which is not a banking organization or which is not engaged in
  the  banking  business  as  defined  in  subdivision  one of section one
  hundred thirty-one of this chapter.
    (d) The superintendent may use the reports of regulatory  agencies  of
  this  state,  of other states, of any foreign government, and of federal
  regulatory agencies in making such examinations or in  conjunction  with
  such  examination.  All  regulatory  agencies  of this state, shall upon
  request of the superintendent, furnish or make available to him  or  her
  reports of examination made by them of any such non-banking subsidiary.
    6-b.  For  purposes of subdivisions six and six-a of this section, any
  references contained therein to "voting stock" or "voting shares"  shall
  be  deemed  to include any ownership interest with respect to any entity
  other  than  a  corporation,  any  references   to   "stockholders"   or
  "shareholders"  shall  include  persons  or  entities who have an equity
  interest in any entity other than a corporation, and any  references  to
  "board  of  directors"  shall  be deemed to mean the governing body with
  respect to any entity other than a corporation.
    7. The  superintendent  may  cause  any  corporation,  association  or
  partnership having business transactions or relations with any corporate
  banking  organization  to  be examined if such examination is found by a
  justice of the supreme court, on application of the  superintendent  and
  on  notice  to  such  company,  to be necessary or expedient in order to
  ascertain  whether  the  capital  stock  of   such   corporate   banking
  organization  is  impaired  or  whether safety of depositors with it has
  been imperilled.
    8. Examinations may be made and inquiries instituted or  continued  in
  the  discretion  of  the superintendent after he has taken possession of
  the property and business of any banking organization or  after  it  has
  entered upon voluntary dissolution until it shall resume business or its
  affairs shall be finally liquidated.
    9.   Any   individual,   partnership,  unincorporated  association  or
  corporation, or any other entity, which refuses to permit examination or
  investigation in accordance with the terms of this section shall forfeit
  to the people of the state an amount as determined pursuant  to  section
  forty-four of this chapter for every day such refusal continues.
    10. All reports of examinations and investigations, correspondence and
  memoranda   concerning   or   arising   out   of  such  examination  and
  investigations, including any duly authenticated copy or copies  thereof
  in  the  possession of any banking organization, bank holding company or
  any subsidiary  thereof  (as  such  terms  "bank  holding  company"  and
  "subsidiary"  are  defined  in  article  three-A  of  this chapter), any
  corporation or any other entity affiliated with a  banking  organization
  within   the  meaning  of  subdivision  six  of  this  section  and  any
  non-banking subsidiary of a corporation or any other entity which is  an
  affiliate  of  a  banking organization within the meaning of subdivision
  six-a of this section, foreign  banking  corporation,  licensed  lender,
  licensed casher of checks, licensed mortgage banker, registered mortgage
  broker,  licensed  mortgage  loan  originator,  licensed  sales  finance
  company, registered mortgage loan servicer, licensed  insurance  premium
  finance  agency, licensed transmitter of money, licensed budget planner,
  any other person or entity subject to supervision under this chapter, or
  the department, shall  be  confidential  communications,  shall  not  be
  subject to subpoena and shall not be made public unless, in the judgment
  of the superintendent, the ends of justice and the public advantage will
  be   subserved   by   the   publication  thereof,  in  which  event  the
  superintendent may publish or authorize the publication of a copy of any
  such report or any part thereof in such manner as may be  deemed  proper
  or  unless  such  laws  specifically  authorize such disclosure. For the
  purposes   of   this   subdivision,   "reports   of   examinations   and
  investigations,  and  any  correspondence  and  memoranda  concerning or
  arising out of such examinations and investigations", includes any  such
  materials  of  a  bank, insurance or securities regulatory agency or any
  unit of the federal government or that of this state any other state  or
  that of any foreign government which are considered confidential by such
  agency  or  unit  and  which  are in the possession of the department or
  which are otherwise confidential materials that have been shared by  the
  department  with  any  such  agency or unit and are in the possession of
  such agency or unit.


::: 37-a:submission_of_annual_reports_by_the_holocaust_claims_processing_office.html
 
    &#167;   37-a.  Submission  of  annual  reports  by  the  Holocaust  claims
  processing office. The  superintendent  shall  report  annually  to  the
  governor,  the  temporary  president  of  the senate, the speaker of the
  assembly, the chairs of the senate standing committees  on  finance  and
  banks,  and  the  chairs of the assembly standing committees on ways and
  means and banks on the fifteenth of January of each year, a statement of
  condition with respect to the purpose, policies and  activities  of  the
  Holocaust  claims  processing  office.  Such  report  shall  include the
  following information:
    1. such offices' operations and accomplishments; and
    2. a schedule of expenses  including,  but  not  limited  to  personal
  service  costs,  nonpersonal  service  costs and expenses related to the
  recovery of properties belonging to Holocaust victim survivors.


::: 370-a:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 370-a.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a change of control of the business of a licensee. Prior to
  any change of control, the person desirous of acquiring control  of  the
  business   of   a   licensee  shall  make  written  application  to  the
  superintendent and pay an investigation fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section   eighteen-a   of   this  chapter  to  the  superintendent.  The
  application shall contain such information  as  the  superintendent,  by
  rule  or  regulation,  may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the
  purpose of making the determination required by subdivision two of  this
  section.
    2.  The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the proposed change
  of  control  of  a  licensee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions   of
  subdivisions  one  and  six  of section three hundred sixty-nine of this
  article. The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the  application
  in  writing  within  ninety days after the date the application is filed
  with the superintendent.
    3. For a period of six months from the date of  qualification  thereof
  and  for  such  additional  period  of  time  as  the superintendent may
  prescribe, in writing, the provisions of subdivisions  one  and  two  of
  this  section  shall  not apply to a transfer of control by operation of
  law to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who  has
  control  of  a  licensee.  Thereafter,  such  legal representative shall
  comply with the provisions of subdivisions one and two of this  section.
  The  provisions  of  subdivisions  one  and two of this section shall be
  applicable to  an  application  made  under  such  section  by  a  legal
  representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative",  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4. As used  in  this  section:  (a)  the  term  "person"  includes  an
  individual,   partnership,   corporation,   association   or  any  other
  organization, and (b) the term "control" means the possession,  directly
  or  indirectly,  of  the  power  to direct or cause the direction of the
  management and policies of a licensee, whether through the ownership  of
  voting  stock  of  such  licensee,  the ownership of voting stock of any
  person which  possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.  Control  shall  be
  presumed  to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls
  or holds with power to vote ten per centum or more of the  voting  stock
  of  any  licensee  or  of  any person which owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote ten per  centum  or  more  of  the  voting  stock  of  any
  licensee,  but no person shall be deemed to control a licensee solely by
  reason of being an officer or director of such licensee or  person.  The
  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application of a licensee
  or  any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote or seeks to own, control or hold with power  to  vote  any
  voting  stock  of such licensee, determine whether or not the ownership,
  control or holding of such voting stock constitutes or would  constitute
  control of such licensee for purposes of this section.


::: 370:restrictions_as_to_place_or_area_of_doing_business_establishment_of_stations_change_of_location.html
 
    &#167; 370.   Restrictions   as   to  place  or  area  of  doing  business;
  establishment of stations; change of location. 1. No more than one place
  of business or one mobile  unit  shall  be  maintained  under  the  same
  license;  provided, however, that more than one license may be issued to
  the same licensee upon compliance with the provisions  of  this  article
  for each new license.
    2.  Any  licensed  casher of checks may open and maintain, within this
  state, one or more limited stations for the purpose of  cashing  checks,
  drafts  or  money orders for the particular group or groups specified in
  the license authorizing  each  such  station.  Such  stations  shall  be
  licensed  pursuant  to  and  be  subject  to  all the provisions of this
  chapter applicable to licensed cashers of checks, except that  (a)  such
  station  shall  not  be  subject to the distance limitation set forth in
  subdivision one of section three hundred sixty-nine of this article, (b)
  the fee for investigating the application for  a  station  shall  be  as
  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter, and (c) where
  such  a  station  is  at  the  premises  of a specified employer for the
  purpose of cashing checks, drafts and money orders for the employees  of
  such  employer,  the fees and charges for cashing such checks, drafts or
  money orders shall not be subject to the limitations of subdivision  one
  of  section  three  hundred seventy-two of this article if such fees and
  charges are paid by such employer.
    3. A licensee may make a written application to the superintendent for
  leave to change his or her place of business, or in the case of a mobile
  unit, the area in which such unit is authorized to be operated,  stating
  the  reasons  for such proposed change. Such application may be approved
  for relocation from a site within three-tenths  of  a  mile  of  another
  licensee  to  another  site  within three-tenths of a mile of such other
  licensee provided that such new  site  is  farther  from  such  existing
  licensee than the site from which permission to relocate is sought. Only
  in  situations in which a licensee seeks to change its place of business
  due  to  extraordinary  circumstances,  as  may  be  determined  by  the
  superintendent  pursuant  to regulations, may the superintendent, in his
  or her discretion, determine that an application  may  be  approved  for
  relocation from a site within three-tenths of a mile of another licensee
  to  a  new  site which is closer to such existing licensee than the site
  from which permission to relocate is sought. Notwithstanding  any  other
  provision of this subdivision, a licensee may relocate from any location
  to  a  location  that  is  within  three-tenths  of  a mile from another
  licensee with  the  written  consent  of  the  other  licensee.  If  the
  superintendent  approves  such  application  he or she shall issue a new
  license in duplicate in accordance with the provisions of section  three
  hundred  sixty-nine  of  this  article, stating the new location of such
  licensee or, in the case of a mobile unit, the new area  in  which  such
  mobile unit may be operated.


::: 371:regulations.html
 
    &#167; 371.  Regulations.  The  superintendent  is  hereby  authorized  and
  empowered to make such rules and regulations, and such specific rulings,
  demands, and findings as he may deem necessary for the proper conduct of
  the business authorized and licensed under and for  the  enforcement  of
  this article, in addition hereto and not inconsistent herewith.


::: 372-a:superintendent_authorized_to_examine.html
 
    &#167;  372-a.  Superintendent authorized to examine. 1. For the purpose of
  discovering violations of this article or securing information  lawfully
  required  in  this  section,  the superintendent may at any time, and as
  often as may be determined,  either  personally  or  by  a  person  duly
  designated  by  the superintendent, investigate the cashing of checks by
  licensees and examine the  books,  accounts,  records,  and  files  used
  therein of every licensee.
    2. For the purpose established in subdivision one of this section, the
  superintendent and his or her duly designated representatives shall have
  free  access  to  the  offices  and places of business, books, accounts,
  papers, records, files, safes and vaults  of  all  such  licensees.  The
  superintendent  shall have authority to require the attendance of and to
  examine under oath all persons whose testimony may be required  relative
  to such cashing of checks or such business.


::: 372-b:forged_checks_for_cashing_signage.html
 
    &#167;  372-b. Forged checks for cashing; signage. All licensees shall post
  in a conspicuously prominent place, clearly visible to  all  patrons,  a
  statement  printed  in  plain language as provided by the superintendent
  informing the public that cashing a forged check  is  illegal  and  that
  those  who  knowingly  cash forged checks will be prosecuted pursuant to
  article one hundred seventy of the penal law.


::: 372:fees_and_charges_posting_schedule_records_and_reports.html
 
    &#167; 372. Fees and charges; posting schedule; records and reports. 1. The
  superintendent  shall,  by  regulation, establish the maximum fees which
  may be charged by licensees for cashing a check, draft, or money  order.
  No  licensee shall charge or collect any sum for cashing a check, draft,
  or money order in excess of that  established  by  the  superintendent's
  regulations;  provided,  however, that no maximum fee shall apply to the
  charging of fees by licensees for the cashing of checks, drafts or money
  orders for payees of such checks, drafts or money orders that are  other
  than natural persons.
    2. The schedule of fees and charges permitted under this section shall
  be  conspicuously  and  continuously  posted in every location and mobil
  unit licensed under this article.
    3. No change in fees shall become effective earlier than  thirty  days
  after the superintendent shall notify the majority leader of the senate,
  the  speaker  of  the  assembly, and the chairmen of both the senate and
  assembly committees on banks of his intention to change fees.
    4. The fees in effect immediately prior to the effective date of  this
  subdivision  shall  continue  to  be  the  maximum  allowable fees until
  revised by the superintendent's regulations.
    5. Each licensee shall keep  and  use  in  its  business  such  books,
  accounts,  and  records  as the superintendent may require to carry into
  effect the provisions of this article and the rules and regulations made
  by the superintendent hereunder.  Every  licensee  shall  preserve  such
  books, accounts and records for at least two years.
    6.  Before  a licensee shall deposit with any banking organization, or
  with any organization engaged in the business of banking, a check, draft
  or money order cashed by such licensee, the same must be  endorsed  with
  the  actual  name  under  which such licensee is doing business and must
  have the words "licensed casher of checks" legibly  written  or  stamped
  immediately after or below such name.
    7.  Every  licensee shall submit to the superintendent, or such person
  as the superintendent may designate, such suspicious activity reports or
  currency transaction reports as are required to be submitted to  federal
  authorities  pursuant  to provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act (subchapter
  11, chapter 53, title  31,  United  States  code)  and  regulations  and
  administrative orders related thereto, as amended, within the periods of
  time  as  required  by such act and regulations. A licensee may submit a
  copy of any such report to the superintendent, or  such  person  as  the
  superintendent   may   designate,   that  is  filed  with  such  federal
  authorities. The superintendent may adopt such  regulations  or  require
  such  additional  reports  as  he  or  she deems necessary to insure the
  effective enforcement of this subdivision.


::: 373:acts_prohibited_suspension_or_revocation_of_license_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 373.   Acts   prohibited;   suspension  or  revocation  of  license;
  penalties.  1. No licensee shall engage in the business of making  loans
  of  money,  credit,  goods  or  things or discounting of notes, bills of
  exchange, checks, or other evidences of debt pursuant to the  provisions
  of  article  nine  of  this  chapter,  nor  shall a loan business or the
  negotiation of loans or the discounting of  notes,  bills  of  exchange,
  checks  or  other  evidences  of  debt be conducted on the same premises
  where the licensee is conducting business pursuant to the provisions  of
  this  article.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  by  regulation of the
  superintendent, all checks, drafts and money orders shall  be  deposited
  in  the  licensee's  bank  account not later than the first business day
  following the day on which they were cashed. No licensee  shall  at  any
  time cash or advance any moneys on a post-dated check or draft or engage
  in   the   business   of  transmitting  money  or  receiving  money  for
  transmission; provided, however,  that  a  licensee  may  cash  a  check
  payable  on the first banking business day following the date of cashing
  (a) if such check is drawn by the United States, the state of New  York,
  or  any  political  subdivision  of  the  state  of  New York, or by any
  department,  bureau,  agency,  authority,  instrumentality  or  officer,
  acting in his official capacity, of the United States or of the state of
  New  York  or  of any political subdivision of the state of New York, or
  (b) if such check is a payroll check drawn by an employer to  the  order
  of  its  employee in payment for services performed by such employee. No
  licensee shall cash any check, draft or money order if the  face  amount
  for  which  it  is  drawn  is  in  excess  of  fifteen thousand dollars;
  provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to the  cashing
  of  checks, drafts or money orders drawn by the United States, any state
  thereof or any political subdivision  of  any  such  state,  or  by  any
  department,  bureau,  agency,  authority,  instrumentality  or  officer,
  acting in his official capacity, of the United States, any state thereof
  or  any  political  subdivision  of  any  such  state,  or  any  banking
  institution,  or  to  any check or draft drawn by any insurance company,
  any broker  or  dealer  registered  with  the  securities  and  exchange
  commission,  or  any  attorney  for  the settlement of claims, or to any
  check which has been certified by the banking institution  on  which  it
  has  been  drawn;  provided  further, however, that any such restriction
  upon the maximum face amount that may be cashed by a licensee shall  not
  apply  to the cashing of checks, drafts or money orders by licensees for
  payees of such checks, drafts  or  money  orders  that  are  other  than
  natural persons. For purposes of this subdivision, "banking institution"
  means   any   bank,  trust  company,  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan
  association  or  credit  union  which  is  incorporated,  chartered   or
  organized  under the laws of this state or any other state or the United
  States.
    2. The superintendent may suspend or revoke any  license  or  licenses
  issued pursuant to this article if, after notice and a hearing, he shall
  find  that  the  licensee  (a)  has  committed any fraud, engaged in any
  dishonest activities or made any misrepresentation; or (b) has  violated
  any  provisions  of  the  banking  law or any regulation issued pursuant
  thereto, or has violated any other law in  the  course  of  its  or  his
  dealings  as  a  licensed  casher  of  checks;  or  (c) has made a false
  statement in the application for such license or failed to give  a  true
  reply  to a question in such application; or (d) has demonstrated his or
  its incompetency or untrustworthiness to act as  a  licensed  casher  of
  checks; or (e) is not doing sufficient business pursuant to this article
  to  justify the continuance of the license, or if he shall find that any
  ground or grounds exist which would require or warrant the refusal of an
  application for the issuance of the license if such an application  were
  then  before  him.  Such  a hearing shall be held in the manner and upon
  such notice as may be  prescribed  by  the  superintendent.  Pending  an
  investigation  or  a  hearing  for  the  suspension or revocation of any
  license  or licenses issued pursuant to this article, the superintendent
  may temporarily suspend such license or licenses for  a  period  not  to
  exceed  ninety  days, provided the superintendent shall find that such a
  temporary suspension is in the public interest.
    3. Whenever the superintendent  shall  suspend  or  revoke  a  license
  issued  pursuant  to  this article, he shall forthwith execute a written
  order to that effect. The superintendent shall on the date such order is
  executed file one copy thereof in the office of the department and serve
  a second copy thereof on the licensee either personally  or  by  mailing
  the same to the last known address of such licensee. Such order shall be
  subject to review by the supreme court in the manner provided in article
  seventy-eight  of  the  civil practice law and rules; provided, however,
  that a special proceeding for review of such  order  must  be  commenced
  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  such  order  of suspension or
  revocation and, provided further, that no stay shall be granted  pending
  the  determination  of the matter except on notice to the superintendent
  and for a period not exceeding thirty days.
    4. Any person, partnership, association or corporation and the several
  members, officers, directors, agents and employees  thereof,  who  shall
  violate  any  of  the  provisions  of this article, shall be guilty of a
  misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by imprisonment for not  more  than
  one  year or by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by both
  such fine and imprisonment.
    5. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision four of this section,
  any person, partnership, association  or  corporation  and  the  several
  members,  officers,  directors,  agents  and employees thereof who shall
  violate the provisions of  subdivision  one  of  section  three  hundred
  sixty-seven of this article shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor.


::: 374:application_of_article.html
 
    &#167; 374. Application of article. 1. The provisions of this article shall
  not  apply when checks, drafts or money orders are cashed, other than by
  a licensee, without a consideration or charge; nor when  checks,  drafts
  or  money orders are cashed, other than by a licensee, as an incident to
  the conduct of any other lawful business where not more than one  dollar
  is  charged  for cashing each check, draft or money order; nor shall the
  provisions of this article apply to any national bank,  federal  reserve
  bank,  or  to any person, partnership, association, corporation or other
  organization doing business under or pursuant to the provisions of  this
  chapter, except a licensee under this article.
    2.  The  provisions  of  this  article shall apply to the operation of
  electronic check cashing machines. No person, partnership,  association,
  corporation  or  other  organization  required to be licensed under this
  article shall operate an electronic check cashing machine without  being
  duly  licensed by the superintendent to engage in such business pursuant
  to this article.
    * 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivisions  one  and  two  of
  this  section, no national bank or any person, partnership, association,
  corporation or other organization doing business under  or  pursuant  to
  the  provisions  of  this chapter, except a licensee under this article,
  shall conduct the business of cashing  checks  at  a  separate  location
  which  is  used  primarily by any such entity for the purpose of cashing
  checks, or at a separate  location  by  means  of  an  electronic  check
  cashing  machine,  unless  such separate location is not closer than one
  thousand five hundred eighty-four feet (three-tenths of a mile) from  an
  existing  licensee;  provided  however  that  this restriction shall not
  apply to any separate location which  was  in  operation  prior  to  the
  effective  date  of  this subdivision nor shall it apply to any national
  bank or any  person,  partnership,  association,  corporation  or  other
  organization  doing business under or pursuant to the provisions of this
  chapter which was engaged in the business of  electronic  check  cashing
  machines in this state prior to the effective date of this subdivision.
    * NB Repealed August 1, 2018
    4.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions of article four-A of this chapter
  and any rules or regulations adopted thereunder, a public  accommodation
  office  shall  be deemed a separate location for purposes of subdivision
  three of this section if such office is used primarily for  the  purpose
  of  cashing  of  checks.  A public accommodation office, for purposes of
  this subdivision, shall include, without limitation, both  those  public
  accommodation  offices  for  which  regulatory  approval is required and
  those public accommodation offices for which regulatory approval is  not
  required. The provisions of this subdivision shall be deemed to apply to
  any similar facility established by a national bank.


::: 375:incorporation_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 375. Incorporation; organization certificate. When authorized by the
  superintendent  as  provided  in article two of this chapter, fifteen or
  more persons, residents of the state of New York, may form a corporation
  to be known as a  savings  and  loan  association.  Such  persons  shall
  subscribe   and   acknowledge   and  submit  to  the  superintendent  an
  organization certificate in duplicate, which shall  specifically  state:
  1. The name by which the association is to be known, which shall contain
  as a part thereof the words "savings and loan association."
    2. The place where its principal office is to be located.
    3.  The  name,  occupation and place of residence of each incorporator
  and the number of shares for which he has subscribed.
    4. The total matured value of the shares for which  the  incorporators
  have  subscribed,  which  shall  be  at  least: (a) Twenty-five thousand
  dollars if the place where the principal office is to be located  has  a
  population of ten thousand or more; or
    (b)  Ten  thousand  dollars  if  the principal office is to be located
  elsewhere.
    5. The number of directors of the association, or that the  number  of
  directors shall not be less than a stated minimum nor more than a stated
  maximum.  Such  number,  or the minimum and the maximum stated, shall be
  within the limitations prescribed by section three hundred  ninety-seven
  of this article.
    6. The names of the incorporators who shall be its directors until the
  first  annual meeting. The incorporators named as directors must possess
  the  qualifications  of  directors  as  to  citizenship  and   residence
  specified in section three hundred ninety-seven of this article.


::: 376:proposed_bylaws.html
 
    &#167; 376.  Proposed  by-laws.  1.  The  incorporators shall subscribe and
  acknowledge  and  submit  to  the  superintendent  proposed  by-laws  in
  duplicate,  which  shall make provision for the following: (a) The dates
  of regular meetings of shareholders; the notice, if any,  to  be  given;
  the  qualifications  of  voters  and the manner of voting; the manner of
  calling  special  meetings;  and  the  number  of  members  which  shall
  constitute a quorum.
    (b)  The  number  of  directors,  and their qualifications, other than
  those specified in this article; their terms of office, which shall  not
  be  less  than  one  year nor more than three years, and if the terms of
  office be more than one year, the method of division  into  classes  for
  the  purpose  of  electing,  as  nearly  as  may  be, an equal number of
  directors each year; and the removal or suspension of  directors.    The
  by-laws  may provide that the number of directors shall be not less than
  seven nor more than fifteen, in  which  event  the  by-laws  shall  also
  provide  the  manner  in  which  the  number of directors shall be fixed
  within the minimum and maximum limits.
    (c) The meetings of the board of directors, of which there shall be no
  less than ten regular monthly meetings per year, provided, however, that
  during any three consecutive calendar  months  the  board  of  directors
  shall  meet  at  least  twice; its powers and duties; the appointment or
  election of  auditors  and  their  compensation;  the  establishment  of
  policies governing the appointment of appraisers and their compensation.
    (d) The officers; the manner of their election; their terms of office,
  duties  and  compensation;  and  the  bonds  which  shall be required of
  officers.
    (e) The classes of shares which may be issued; whether they  shall  be
  issued  in  series  or otherwise; the times when they may be issued; and
  their matured value.
    (f) The manner in which evidence of share ownership shall be issued to
  members.
    (g) The dues that shall be paid upon shares  and  the  time  of  their
  payment;  the  time  and  manner  of  apportioning, crediting and paying
  dividends.
    (h) The conditions upon which  shares  may  be  transferred,  matured,
  withdrawn, retired or suspended and forfeited.
    (i)  If a member thereof, the voting of shares in the Savings and Loan
  Bank of the State of New York and the nomination of a director  of  such
  bank.
    (j)  The  manner and conditions under which the by-laws may be altered
  or amended.
    2. Such by-laws may make provision for the following:
    (a) The fees that may be charged, which shall be only an entrance  fee
  at  a rate not exceeding twenty-five cents a share with a maximum amount
  of five dollars, or in lieu thereof a membership fee not  exceeding  one
  dollar;  a  transfer  fee not exceeding twenty-five cents a share, or in
  lieu thereof a total fee not exceeding one dollar on each transfer.
    (b) Loans and investments; the security to be taken for loans, and the
  conditions under which loans may be repaid.
    (c) The fines and penalties which may be imposed for failure  promptly
  to make payments when due.
    (d)  Prohibiting  or  further  limiting proxies for members, and their
  duration,  pursuant  to  subdivision  two  of  section   three   hundred
  seventy-eight.
    (e) The receipt of time and demand deposits.


::: 377:when_corporate_existence_begins.html
 
    &#167; 377.  When corporate existence begins. When the superintendent shall
  have approved the organization certificate and the proposed by-laws, and
  shall have issued his authorization certificate as provided  in  article
  two  of  this  chapter, the corporate existence of the association shall
  begin.


::: 378-a:time_deposits.html
 
    &#167; 378-a.   Time   deposits.   1.   Subject  to  such  regulations  and
  restrictions as the superintendent of financial  services  finds  to  be
  necessary  and  proper,  a  savings and loan association may contract to
  receive time deposits including deposits upon which the savings and loan
  association contracts to pay interest at a fixed rate.
    2. Any time deposit made by or in the name of any minor shall be  held
  for  the  exclusive  right  and benefit of such minor, and free from the
  control or lien of all other persons, except  creditors,  and  shall  be
  paid  together  with  interest  credited thereon, to the person in whose
  name the deposit shall have been made. The  receipt  or  acquittance  of
  such  minor shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge to the
  association for any payment so made. When any time deposit shall be made
  by any person in trust for another, including a minor, and no  other  or
  further  notice  of  the  existence and terms of a legal and valid trust
  shall have been given in writing to the association, in the event of the
  death of the trustee, the deposit, together with the  interest  credited
  thereon,  may  be  paid to the person for whom the deposit was made. The
  receipt of acquittance of such person shall be a  valid  and  sufficient
  release and discharge to the association for any payment so made.
    3.  The  repayment  of time deposits made with any association and any
  interest credited thereto, shall be subject to the  provisions  of  this
  chapter  and  to rules and regulations made in accordance therewith. Any
  such regulations adopted by the board of directors shall be posted in  a
  conspicious  place  in  the  office  or offices of such association, and
  shall be available to  depositors  upon  request.  All  such  rules  and
  regulations,  from  time  to time in effect, and all amendments thereto,
  from time to time in effect, shall be binding upon all depositors.
    4. Notice to any association of an adverse claim  to  a  time  deposit
  standing on its books to the credit of any person shall not be effectual
  to  cause  such association to recognize such adverse claimant unless he
  shall also either procure  a  restraining  order,  injunction  or  other
  appropriate  process  against such association from a court of competent
  jurisdiction in a cause therein instituted by him wherein the person  to
  whose credit the deposit stands or his executor or administrator is made
  a  party  and served with summons, or shall execute to such association,
  in form and with sureties acceptable to it  a  bond,  indemnifying  such
  association  from  any  and  all  liability,  loss,  damage,  costs  and
  expenses, for and on account of the payment of such adverse claim or the
  dishonor of the order of the person to whose credit the  deposit  stands
  on  the books of such association; provided, that this section shall not
  apply in any instance where the  person  to  whose  credit  the  deposit
  stands  is  a  fiduciary  for  such  adverse  claimant,  and  the  facts
  constituting such relationship, and the facts showing  reasonable  cause
  for  belief on the part of such claimant that such fiduciary is about to
  misappropriate such deposit, are made to appear by the affidavit of such
  claimant.
    5. (a) In all actions  against  any  association  to  recover  a  time
  deposit,  if  there be any person or persons, not parties to the action,
  who claim the same fund, the court in which the action is  pending  may,
  on  the petition of such association, and upon eight days' notice to the
  plaintiff and such claimants, and without proof as to the merits of  the
  claim,  make  an  order amending the proceedings in the action by making
  such claimants parties defendants thereto; and the court shall thereupon
  proceed to determine the rights and interests of the several parties  to
  the  action  in  and  to such funds. The remedy provided in this section
  shall be in addition to and not exclusive of that provided in any  other
  interpleader provision.
    (b) The time deposit which is the subject of such an action may remain
  with  such  association to the credit of the action until final judgment
  therein, and be entitled to the same interest as other deposits  of  the
  same class, and shall be paid by such association in accordance with the
  final  judgment  of the court; or the deposit in controversy may be paid
  into court to await the final determination of the action, and when  the
  deposit  is so paid into court such association shall be struck out as a
  party to the action, and its liability for such deposit shall cease.
    (c) The costs  in  all  actions  against  an  association  to  recover
  deposits  shall  be  in  the discretion of the court, and may be charged
  upon the fund affected by the action.
    7. Subject to any  regulations  and  restrictions  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, a savings and loan association may
  accept  time  deposit  without  the issuance of a passbook in connection
  therewith, and may issue such other evidences of its obligation to repay
  such time deposits as may be appropriate to safeguard the  interests  of
  the depositors and of the savings and loan association.


::: 378-b:club_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 378-b.  Club accounts. 1. No contract under which a savings and loan
  association agrees to  repay  shares  of  fixed  sums  made  at  regular
  intervals  at  a  given  time  with  all  interest or dividends credited
  thereon, or to  repay  said  shares  when,  together  with  interest  or
  dividends  credited  thereon,  they  shall  equal  a  specified sum, may
  provide for any forfeiture of the sums deposited in  the  event  of  the
  discontinuance  of  the  regular payments. Interest or dividends on club
  accounts, if offered, must be credited at least quarterly and may not be
  forfeited once credited, in the event of the discontinuance  of  regular
  payments.
    2.  Any  savings  and  loan association which provides for deposits in
  club accounts shall,  in  all  advertising  announcements  or  brochures
  pertaining  to such accounts, state whether or not interest or dividends
  are paid thereon and, if interest or dividends are paid, shall state the
  rate or form of interest or dividends so paid  in  accordance  with  any
  rules and regulations that may be prescribed by the superintendent.


::: 378-c:excelsior_linked_deposit_program.html
 
    &#167; 378-c.   Excelsior  linked  deposit  program.  A  savings  and  loan
  association may accept  moneys  deposited  by  the  comptroller  or  the
  commissioner  of  taxation  and  finance  as linked deposits pursuant to
  article fifteen of the state finance  law  and  enter  into  agreements,
  pledge assets or furnish other security, satisfactory in form and amount
  to such authorized depositor, for the repayment of such moneys.


::: 378-d:preservation_of_books_and_records.html
 
    &#167;  378-d.  Preservation  of  books and records. Every savings and loan
  association shall preserve all its records  of  final  entry,  including
  cards used under the card system and deposit tickets, for a period of at
  least six years from the date of making the same or from the date of the
  last entry thereon; provided, however, that preservation of photographic
  reproductions  thereof  or records in photographic form shall constitute
  compliance with the requirements of this  section.  Notwithstanding  the
  foregoing,  the  superintendent  of  financial services may prescribe by
  regulation such period of time longer or shorter than six  years  during
  which  all  records  kept  by savings and loan associations as fiduciary
  shall be preserved in original form.


::: 378-e:water_pollution_control_linked_deposit_program.html
 
    &#167; 378-e. Water pollution control linked deposit program. A savings and
  loan  association  may  accept  moneys  deposited  by the New York state
  environmental facilities corporation  as  linked  deposits  pursuant  to
  article  sixteen  of  the  state  finance law and enter into agreements,
  pledge assets or furnish other security, satisfactory in form and amount
  to  New  York  state  environmental  facilities  corporation,  for   the
  repayment of such moneys.


::: 378:power_to_issue_shares_dues_thereon.html
 
    &#167; 378.  Power to issue shares; dues thereon. 1. Every savings and loan
  association  shall  be  either  permanent  or  serial  in  character.  A
  permanent  association  shall be one which issues instalment shares, not
  in series, and credits dividends thereon to the holders of  such  shares
  individually.  A serial association shall be one which issues instalment
  shares in series and credits the dividends apportioned to such shares by
  series. No additional shares shall be  issued  in  any  series  after  a
  dividend has been credited thereto unless the person to whom such shares
  shall  be  issued  shall  pay  therefor  the  book  value of such shares
  including the estimated accrued dividend thereon since the close of  the
  preceding  dividend  period.  Dividends credited by a serial association
  upon shares issued by it other than instalment shares may be credited to
  the holders of such shares individually.
    2. The members of a savings and loan association shall be:  (1)  those
  persons  who  are the holders of record of shares whose membership shall
  continue until such shares have matured and  been  paid,  or  have  been
  withdrawn,  retired,  suspended,  forfeited, or transferred; and (2) all
  borrowers  from  the  association  and  all  persons  obligated  to  the
  association on loans whose membership shall continue until such loans or
  obligations  have  been  paid. Each member shall be entitled to at least
  one vote upon all question  at  any  meeting  of  such  members  of  the
  association,  except  when  by  statute the vote is required to be based
  upon the capital of the association. Every member entitled to vote at  a
  meeting  of  members  of the association may authorize another person or
  persons to act for him by proxy, but no director, officer, clerk, teller
  or bookkeeper of the savings and loan association shall act as proxy  at
  any  meeting  of  such  association.  Every  proxy must be signed by the
  member or his attorney-in-fact.  No  proxy  shall  be  valid  after  the
  expiration  of  eleven  months  from  the  date thereof unless otherwise
  provided in the proxy. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of
  the member executing it. The authority of the holder of a proxy  to  act
  shall  not  be  revoked  by  the incompetence or death of the member who
  executed the proxy unless, before the authority  is  exercised,  written
  notice  of  an  adjudication  of  such  incompetence or of such death is
  received by the officer of the association responsible  for  maintaining
  the  list  of members. The by-laws may prohibit or further limit proxies
  for members and their duration. No director or officer of a savings  and
  loan association shall be eligible to act as an inspector of an election
  of directors at any meeting of members of the association.
    3. The capital of every such association shall consist of the dues and
  dividends  credited to its members upon their shares either individually
  or by series, time deposits held by such association pursuant to section
  three hundred seventy-eight-a of this  chapter  together  with  interest
  accrued  on  such deposits, and demand deposits held by such association
  pursuant to subdivision thirteen of section three  hundred  eighty-three
  of this chapter.
    4.  Any savings and loan association may issue shares of the following
  classes: (a) Instalment shares, class one, upon which  regular  payments
  of  dues  shall  be  made as provided in the by-laws of the association,
  until such shares reach their matured value or are withdrawn, retired or
  forfeited; and  instalment  shares,  class  two,  which  shall  have  no
  participation  in dividends and upon which the dues payable in regularly
  increasing amounts are applied  in  reduction  of  a  debt  due  to  the
  association  from  the  holder  of  such  shares  in  accordance  with a
  direction given by him.
    (b) Savings shares, upon which dues shall be paid  in  such  sums,  at
  such  times and for such purposes as the holder thereof may elect, until
  the shares are withdrawn or retired. Upon  the  request  of  the  holder
  thereof, such savings shares may be converted by the issuing association
  into special savings shares authorized for issuance by paragraph (bb) of
  this  subdivision.  The  association  may  enter  such conversion in its
  records  and  on  the  evidence of ownership of the savings shares as an
  alternative to withdrawal  or  retirement  of  the  savings  shares  and
  issuance of special savings shares.
    (bb) Subject to such limitations and restrictions as may be prescribed
  by  regulation  of  the  superintendent  of  financial services, special
  savings shares, upon which dues shall be paid  in  such  sums,  at  such
  times  and  for such purposes as the holder thereof may elect, and which
  shall provide that dividends shall be credited from the date  of  actual
  receipt  of  such  dues  to  the  date  they  are  withdrawn or retired.
  Dividends on special savings shares shall be credited and shall be  made
  available  no later than the end of a regular dividend period, or at the
  time such special savings shares are withdrawn  or  retired  if  in  the
  opinion  of  a majority of the board of directors it appears the savings
  and loan association will have sufficient profit available at the end of
  such regular dividend period to  pay  dividends  and  if  the  board  of
  directors  chooses  payment  of  dividends at withdrawal as an option to
  periodic payment of dividends. Any savings and  loan  association  which
  does  not  make  dividends  available pursuant to the provisions of this
  paragraph shall promptly notify the superintendent of financial services
  of such decision. Withdrawals or retirements of special  savings  shares
  during  the  last three business days of any regular dividend period or,
  in the event that any  one  of  such  last  three  business  days  is  a
  Saturday,  withdrawals of such shares upon one of the last four business
  days of any such period may receive dividends apportioned for  the  full
  period.
    (c) Accumulative prepaid shares upon which a single payment of dues to
  the  amount  of  fifty  per  centum or more of the matured value thereof
  shall be paid at the time when such shares are issued. The  whole  or  a
  part  of  the  dividends  apportioned  to  such shares shall be credited
  thereto until such shares are matured, withdrawn or retired. Any balance
  of such dividends not so credited shall be paid in cash.
    (d) Income shares, upon which a single payment of  dues  amounting  to
  one hundred dollars per share shall be paid at the time when such shares
  are  issued.  The  dividends on such shares shall be paid in cash or, in
  accordance with the written order of the holder, applied to the purchase
  of other shares in the association. Income shares may  be  issued  which
  shall not be withdrawable without the consent of the board of directors,
  until the expiration of a fixed period, which shall be not more than ten
  years.  Whenever  income  shares  are  issued which are not withdrawable
  until the expiration of a fixed period, a statement that  they  are  not
  withdrawable  until the expiration of such fixed period shall be printed
  upon the face  of  the  certificate  of  shares  or  other  evidence  of
  ownership  in  such  manner  as  to  be  clearly  legible.  Whenever any
  association is  unable  to  locate  the  holder  of  income  shares  and
  dividends shall have been apportioned which cannot be paid to the holder
  thereof  by  reason  of the inability of such association to locate such
  holder, such association may credit such dividends as dues upon  another
  class  of  shares  in the name of holder of such income shares and shall
  carry such other shares and any accumulations thereon for the benefit of
  such shareholder. Income shares which are  not  withdrawable  until  the
  expiration of a fixed period shall be termed "income shares, class two."
  Other income shares shall be termed "income shares, class one."
    (e)  Cumulative  income  shares upon which a single payment of dues of
  not less than one hundred dollars shall be paid at the time such  shares
  are  issued.  The dividends on such shares may be credited thereto until
  such shares are matured, withdrawn or retired. Cumulative income  shares
  may be issued which shall not be withdrawable without the consent of the
  board  of directors, until the expiration of a fixed period, which shall
  be  not  more  than  ten  years  nor  less  than  ninety  days. Whenever
  cumulative income shares are issued which are not withdrawable until the
  expiration of a fixed period, a statement that they are not withdrawable
  until the expiration of such fixed period shall be printed upon the face
  of the certificate of shares or other  evidence  of  ownership  in  such
  manner  as to be clearly legible. Cumulative income shares which are not
  withdrawable until the expiration of a  fixed  period  shall  be  termed
  "cumulative  income  shares,  class two." Other cumulative income shares
  shall be termed "cumulative income shares, class one."
    5. All shares hereafter issued by any  savings  and  loan  association
  shall  have  a  matured  value  of  one  hundred  dollars,  except  that
  instalment shares may be issued having a matured value of not less  than
  one hundred nor more than two hundred fifty dollars.
    6.  Shares  issued in the name of more than one person shall confer no
  greater voting rights than if issued in the name of one person.
    7. Persons who hold shares in a fiduciary capacity shall have all  the
  rights and privileges of membership, except to hold office.
    8. A savings and loan association shall have a lien upon the shares of
  its  members  to the extent of any lawful fines or other obligations due
  to it, whether or  not  such  shares  are  specifically  transferred  or
  pledged  to  it,  and may, at its option, after five days' notice to the
  member, apply such shares toward the payment of any matured  obligations
  due it.
    9.  A  savings  and  loan  association may in its discretion accept or
  refuse advance payments of dues.
    10. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, a savings and  loan
  association,  in  its  organization  certificate,  by-laws,  advertising
  matter or any other instrument, document or other writing used in or  in
  connection  with  its  business,  may  designate  its shares as "deposit
  accounts" or "savings accounts" its members as "depositors", its dues or
  share payments as "deposits", and its capital  as  "deposit  liability".
  The  use  of any term permitted by this subdivision shall not affect any
  right,  duty,  privilege  or  liability  which  the  savings  and   loan
  association, any member or any depositor would otherwise have.


::: 379-b:service_corporation_owned_by_associations_authorized_activities_of_such_corporation_investment_therein.html
 
    &#167; 379-b.   Service   corporation  owned  by  associations;  authorized
  activities of such corporation; investment therein.  1.  A  savings  and
  loan  association  may invest in the stock, capital notes and debentures
  of a service corporation organized under the laws of this state for  the
  sole  activities  set  forth  in subdivision two of this section, to the
  extent and upon such conditions as are or have been  authorized  by  the
  superintendent  of financial services, provided that all of the stock of
  such service corporation is, or is to be, owned by one or  more  savings
  and  loan  associations;  and provided further, that no savings and loan
  association may make any investment under this section if its  aggregate
  outstanding   investment   thereby,  determined  as  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, would thereupon exceed  three  per
  centum of its assets.
    2.  The  activities of such service corporation, performed directly or
  through  one  or  more  wholly  owned  subsidiaries,  shall  consist  of
  rendering such services to savings and loan associations and making such
  investments  for  itself  and  for  savings and loan associations as are
  authorized services and investments  for  such  associations  under  the
  provisions  of  this  chapter  as  well  as  such  activities  as may be
  prescribed by general regulation  of  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services.


::: 379:power_to_invest_in_securities.html
 
    &#167; 379.  Power  to invest in securities. A savings and loan association
  may invest its funds in the following  securities:  (1)  Shares  of  the
  Savings  and  Loan  Bank  of  the  State  of  New York, in an amount not
  exceeding five per centum of the assets of such association at the  time
  of  such  investment, except that such amount may exceed five per centum
  with the written approval of the superintendent.
    (2) Capital stock of a federal  home  loan  bank,  in  an  amount  not
  exceeding  five per centum of the assets of such association at the time
  of such investment, except that such amount may exceed five  per  centum
  with the written approval of the superintendent.
    (3) Obligations of the Savings and Loan Bank of the State of New York.
    (4)  Bonds,  debentures, consolidated debentures, or other obligations
  of a federal home loan bank or banks.
    (5)  Securities,  certificates  of  deposit  and  other  accounts  and
  corporate  obligations in which investments are authorized to be made by
  savings  banks  subject  to  those  limitations   applicable   to   such
  investments  in  the  case of savings banks, including, without limiting
  the foregoing, investments made  under  the  provisions  of  subdivision
  thirty of section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter.
    (6)  Such  additional  investments  as  are  authorized  to be made by
  savings  banks  by  subdivision  thirty-one  of  section   two   hundred
  thirty-five  of this chapter, subject to those limitations applicable to
  such investments in the case of savings banks.
    (7) Such bonds or other evidences of indebtedness issued or guaranteed
  by the State of Israel  as  are  approved  by  the  comptroller  of  the
  currency  for  investment by national banks; provided, however, that the
  principal and interest payable thereon shall be payable in United States
  dollars; and provided that  such  investments  may  not  exceed  in  the
  aggregate  five percent of the association's capital deposits, undivided
  profits, surplus and reserves.


::: 37:reports_to_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 37.  Reports to superintendent. 1. The superintendent shall at least
  two times in each year designate a past day  as  of  which  every  bank,
  trust   company,   private   banker   and,  in  the  discretion  of  the
  superintendent, a bank holding company and  any  non-banking  subsidiary
  thereof  shall  render a periodical report of condition to him. He shall
  deliver or mail a notice  designating  such  day  to  such  bank,  trust
  company,  private  banker,  bank  holding  company  or  any  non-banking
  subsidiary thereof at its principal office.
    3. In addition to any reports expressly required by this chapter to be
  made, the superintendent may require any banking organization,  licensed
  lender,  licensed  casher  of  checks, licensed mortgage banker, foreign
  banking corporation licensed by the superintendent  to  do  business  in
  this state, bank holding company and any non-banking subsidiary thereof,
  corporate  affiliate  of  a  corporate  banking  organization within the
  meaning of subdivision six of section thirty-six of this article and any
  non-banking subsidiary of a corporation  which  is  an  affiliate  of  a
  corporate  banking  organization within the meaning of subdivision six-a
  of section thirty-six of this article to make special reports to him  at
  such times as he may prescribe.
    4.  The superintendent, except as otherwise expressly provided in this
  chapter, may prescribe the form and contents of all periodical  and  all
  special reports.
    5.  The  superintendent  may  extend at his discretion the time within
  which a banking organization, foreign banking  corporation  licensed  by
  the superintendent to do business in this state, bank holding company or
  any  non-banking subsidiary thereof, licensed casher of checks, licensed
  mortgage banker, private banker or licensed lender is required  to  make
  and file any report to the superintendent.
    6.  For  purposes of this section thirty-seven the terms "bank holding
  company" and "non-banking subsidiary" shall be defined as such terms are
  defined in article three-A of this chapter.


::: 380-a:power_to_purchase_mortgage_loan_or_investment.html
 
    &#167; 380-a.  Power  to  purchase mortgage, loan or investment. Subject to
  such regulations and restrictions as  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may prescribe therefor, an association may acquire by purchase
  any mortgage, loan or invetsment which by the provisions of this article
  it is authorized to make and hold.


::: 380-b:power_to_purchase_mortgages_from_mortgage_holders.html
 
    &#167; 380-b.  Power to purchase mortgages from mortgage holders. A savings
  and loan association may purchase from mortgage holders;  (1)  any  bond
  and  mortgage  insured  or  guaranteed  by  the  United  States  or  any
  instrumentality thereof, or for which there is a commitment to so insure
  or guarantee, or (2) provided the mortgage is a first lien, any bond and
  mortgage at least twenty per centum of which is guaranteed  pursuant  to
  the  provisions  of  the  act  of  congress  entitled  the "Servicemen's
  Readjustment Act of 1944". A savings and loan  association  may  receive
  and hold such debentures as are issued in payment of any such insurance.
  No  law  of  this  state  prescribing or limiting the interest rate upon
  loans or advances of credit  or  prescribing  a  penalty  for  violation
  thereof  or  prescribing  the  nature,  amount  or  form  of security or
  requiring security upon which loans or advances of credit may be made or
  prescribing or limiting the period for which loans or advances of credit
  may be made or limiting the amount of any class of  loans,  advances  of
  credit or purchases which may be made shall be deemed to apply to loans,
  advances  of  credit  or purchases made or to loans acquired by purchase
  pursuant to this subdivision.


::: 380-c:power_to_participate_in_certain_loans_and_mortgage_investments.html
 
    &#167; 380-c.   Power   to   participate  in  certain  loans  and  mortgage
  investments.  Subject to such regulations and  restrictions  as  may  be
  prescribed  by  the  superintendent of financial services, a savings and
  loan association may participate in making or acquiring (1) loans  of  a
  type  that  it is authorized to have by paragraph (b) of subdivision two
  of section three hundred  eighty  of  this  chapter,  and  (2)  mortgage
  investments of any type that it is authorized to have, provided that the
  participation  acquired  shall  not  be  subordinate  to  any other part
  interest.


::: 380-e:effect_of_usury.html
 
    &#167; 380-e.  Effect of usury. The knowingly taking, receiving, reserving,
  or charging by a savings and loan association of interest,  as  computed
  pursuant  to  this article, at a rate greater than such rate of interest
  as may be authorized by law shall be held and adjudged a  forfeiture  of
  the  entire  interest  which  the note or other evidence of debt carries
  with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon.  If  such  greater
  rate  of interest has been paid, the person paying the same or his legal
  representatives may recover from the savings and loan association  twice
  the  entire  amount  of  the interest thus paid. Nothing in this section
  shall be deemed to affect the powers of any savings and loan association
  with respect to loans or investments it is authorized to make.


::: 380-f:power_to_make_advances_of_federal_funds.html
 
    &#167; 380-f.  Power  to make advances of federal funds. A savings and loan
  association may make advances of  federal  funds  to  commercial  banks,
  provided  such advances are made on the condition that they be repaid on
  the next business day following the day on which the  advance  is  made.
  For  purposes  of this section the term "federal funds" shall mean funds
  which a savings and loan association has on deposit at a commercial bank
  which are exchangeable for funds on deposit at a federal  reserve  bank;
  the  term  "commercial bank" shall mean any bank, trust company, private
  banker, national banking association, having  its  principal  office  in
  this  state; and the term "business day" shall mean any day on which the
  savings and loan  association,  the  commercial  bank  and  the  federal
  reserve  bank  where  the  funds are on deposit are all open for general
  business.


::: 380-g:power_to_engage_in_line_of_credit_financing_of_residential_real_estate.html
 
    &#167; 380-g.  Power  to  engage in line of credit financing of residential
  real estate. A savings and loan association is authorized to  invest  an
  amount, not exceeding the lesser of (a) ten per centum of the sum of its
  surplus,  undivided  profits,  and reserves or (b) one per centum of its
  assets, in loans or in interests therein the principal purpose of  which
  is to provide financing with respect to what is or is expected to become
  primarily  residential  real  estate  within  this  state, where (i) the
  association relies substantially for repayment on the borrower's general
  credit standing, with or without other security, or (ii) the association
  relies on other assurances for repayment, including but not limited to a
  guaranty or similar obligation of a third party,  and,  in  either  case
  described  in  clause  (i)  or  (ii),  regardless  of whether or not the
  association takes security.


::: 380-h:trust_powers.html
 
    &#167; 380-h.  Trust powers. 1. The superintendent of financial services is
  authorized and empowered to grant  permission  to  a  savings  and  loan
  association  to  exercise any or all of the powers specified in sections
  one hundred, one hundred-a, one hundred-b  and  one  hundred-c  of  this
  chapter.  In  passing  upon  applications for permission to exercise any
  such powers, the superintendent of  financial  services  may  take  into
  consideration the amount of surplus of the applying association, whether
  or  not  such surplus is sufficient under the circumstances of the case,
  the needs of the  community  to  be  served  and  any  other  facts  and
  circumstances  that  seem  to  it  proper,  and  may  grant or refuse it
  permission accordingly.
    2. Whenever the laws of this state require a trust company acting in a
  fiduciary capacity to deposit securities with the state authorities  for
  the   protection  of  private  or  court  trusts,  a  savings  and  loan
  association, so  acting,  is  empowered  to  make  similar  deposits  of
  securities.
    4.   The   superintendent  of  financial  services  is  authorized  to
  promulgate such regulations as  it  may  deem  necessary  or  proper  to
  implement  the provisions of this section and the proper exercise of the
  powers granted by this section.


::: 380-i:personal_loan_departments.html
 
    &#167; 380-i. Personal loan departments. Subject to such regulations as the
  superintendent  of  financial services may prescribe, a savings and loan
  association may operate a personal loan department under the same  terms
  and  conditions  as  are  provided  under  subdivisions four and five of
  section one hundred eight of this chapter.
    The superintendent of financial services shall  be  empowered  (a)  to
  prescribe  the  terms and conditions governing the conduct and operation
  of personal loan departments including the maximum amount, expressed  as
  a   percentage  of  assets  or  otherwise,  which  a  savings  and  loan
  association may invest pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision or
  in the aggregate, taking into  account  such  other  provisions  of  law
  authorizing  investments  by  savings  and  loan associations and (b) to
  prescribe such terms and conditions as may be appropriate to  effect  or
  facilitate  the  tranfer of accounts operated pursuant to the provisions
  of any other section of this chapter to the  personal  loan  departments
  authorized to be operated hereunder.
    In  pursuance  of  the  authority  granted  hereunder savings and loan
  associations shall be empowered to issue credit cards, extend credit  in
  connection  therewith,  and otherwise engage in or participate in credit
  card operations,  and  to  act  as  financing  agencies  as  defined  in
  subdivision  nine  of section three hundred one and subdivision eighteen
  of section four hundred one of the personal property law.


::: 380-j:authorization_to_acquire_and_lease_personal_property.html
 
    &#167; 380-j.  Authorization  to  acquire  and  lease  personal property. A
  savings and loan association is authorized to acquire and lease personal
  property to the same extent as a commercial bank is authorized to engage
  in such activities under subdivision twelve  of  section  ninety-six  of
  this chapter, subject to those limitations applicable to such activities
  in the case of banks or trust companies.


::: 380-k:investment_in_promissory_notes.html
 
    &#167; 380-k.   Investment   in   promissory  notes.  A  savings  and  loan
  association may invest  in  promissory  notes  and  other  evidences  of
  indebtedness representing commercial, corporate or business loans to the
  same  extent  as  a  savings  bank is authorized to invest in such notes
  under subdivision eight-c of section two  hundred  thirty-five  of  this
  chapter,  subject to those limitations applicable to such investments in
  the case of a savings bank. For the purposes of this section,  the  term
  "net worth" shall have the meaning ascribed to it by subdivision four of
  section  two hundred forty-four of this chapter.  In addition, a savings
  and loan association is authorized to invest in such promissory notes as
  a savings bank may invest in pursuant to paragraph five  of  subdivision
  eight of section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter.


::: 380-l:excelsior_linked_deposit_program.html
 
    &#167; 380-l.   Excelsior  linked  deposit  program.  A  savings  and  loan
  association may make linked loans, each authorized and approved pursuant
  to article fifteen of the state finance law and each in an amount  equal
  to a corresponding linked deposit made pursuant to such article, subject
  to  the limits of section three hundred eighty-k of this article and any
  other applicable limits or requirements imposed by law or regulation.


::: 380-m:water_pollution_control_linked_deposit_program.html
 
    &#167; 380-m. Water pollution control linked deposit program. A savings and
  loan  association  may  make  linked loans, each authorized and approved
  pursuant to article sixteen of the state finance  law  and  each  in  an
  amount  equal  to  a  corresponding linked deposit made pursuant to such
  article, subject to the limits of section three hundred eighty-k of this
  article and any other applicable limits or requirements imposed  by  law
  or regulations.


::: 380:power_to_make_loans.html
 
    &#167; 380. Power to make loans. 1. A savings and loan association may make
  a loan upon the security of a mortgage of the type authorized to be made
  by  a savings bank by subdivisions five-a and six of section two hundred
  thirty-five  of  this  chapter,  subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe.
    1-b.  A  savings  and  loan  association  may  also  lend its funds to
  borrowers  therefrom  upon  their  promissory  notes  payable   to   the
  association which are:
    (a)  secured  by  one  or  more  mortgages in which a savings and loan
  association may invest; provided however, that the amount loaned is  not
  in  excess  of  ninety  per  centum of the principal sum secured by such
  mortgage or  mortgages.  The  assignment  of  every  mortgage  taken  as
  security for any such note shall be recorded or registered in the office
  of the proper recording officer of the county in which the real property
  described in such mortgage is located, unless such mortgage or mortgages
  have been so assigned by a savings and loan association;
    (b) secured by any of the stocks and bonds in which a savings and loan
  association  may  invest, except stocks eligible for investment pursuant
  to the provisions of  subdivision  twenty-six  of  section  two  hundred
  thirty-five  of  this  chapter; provided however, that the amount of the
  loan is not in excess of ninety per centum of the market value  of  such
  stocks and bonds;
    (c)  made by a savings bank which has been incorporated three years or
  more.
    (d) secured by any of the stocks eligible for investment by a  savings
  and   loan   association  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  subdivision
  twenty-six of section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter;  provided
  however,  that (1) the amount of the loan is not in excess of the lesser
  of (i) eighty-five per centum of the market value  of  such  stocks,  or
  (ii) the maximum loan value of such stocks determined in accordance with
  Federal  Reserve Regulation U and the supplement thereto of the board of
  governors of the federal reserve system and as if the savings  and  loan
  association  were  a member bank of such system extending credit secured
  by such stocks for their purchase as margin stock, and (2) the amount of
  such loan, together with the aggregate amount outstanding of  all  loans
  made  pursuant to this paragraph and the aggregate amount of investments
  in stock eligible for investment  by  a  savings  and  loan  association
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  subdivision twenty-six of section two
  hundred thirty-five of this chapter,  shall  not  exceed  the  aggregate
  limitations  set  forth in subdivision twenty-six of section two hundred
  thirty-five of this chapter;
    2. A savings and loan association may lend its funds  to  its  members
  upon  their  notes as follows: (a) secured by the transfer and pledge to
  the association of shares of any savings and loan association or by  the
  assignment  to the association of a time deposit in any savings and loan
  association, the withdrawal value of which, in either case, shall not be
  less than the amount of any such loan.
    (b) Representing loans and advances  of  credit  for  the  purpose  of
  financing  alterations,  repairs  and improvements upon or in connection
  with, or as the superintendent may authorize the equipping  of  existing
  structures, and the building of new structures, upon urban, suburban, or
  rural   real   property   (including  the  restoration,  rehabilitation,
  rebuilding, and replacement of such improvements which have been damaged
  or destroyed by earthquake, conflagration, tornado, hurricane,  cyclone,
  flood,  or  other  catastrophe),  by the owners thereof or by lessees of
  such real property under a lease expiring not less than six months after
  the maturity of the loan or  advance  of  credit  or  by  lessees  under
  proprietary  leases  from  a  corporation  or partnership formed for the
  purpose of the cooperative ownership of real estate, provided:  (1)  the
  amount of such loan, advance of credit, or purchase made for the purpose
  of  financing  the  alteration,  repair,  equipping  or  improvement  of
  existing  structure  or  the  building  of new structure does not exceed
  twenty thousand dollars; (2) the maturity thereof does  not  exceed  one
  hundred  twenty-one  months;  (3)  the  rate  which  may  be paid by the
  borrower for interest, discount, and fees of  all  kinds  in  connection
  with the transaction shall be the rate or rates agreed to by the savings
  and loan association and the borrower; and (4) the loan shall be paid in
  equal  or  substantially  equal monthly installments calculated from the
  date of the note; provided,  however,  that  in  addition  thereto,  the
  savings  and  loan  association may contract to charge the borrower: (i)
  the fees payable to the appropriate public officer to perfect  any  lien
  or  other security interest taken to secure the loan or the premium, not
  in excess of such filing fee, payable for any insurance in lieu of  such
  filing;  (ii)  in case of default, and in accordance with the provisions
  of the instrument evidencing the obligation, either a fine in an  amount
  not  to exceed five cents per dollar on any installment which has become
  due and remained unpaid for a period in excess of ten days, but no  such
  fine  shall  exceed five dollars and only one fine shall be collected on
  any such installment regardless of the period during which it remains in
  default, and provided further that should the aggregate  of  such  fines
  collected  in  connection  with  any  loan exceed two per centum of such
  loan, or  in  any  event  twenty-five  dollars,  the  savings  and  loan
  association  shall  refund such excess to the borrower within sixty days
  after the loan is paid in full, or, subject to an allowance of  unearned
  interest  attributable to the amount in default, interest on each amount
  past due at a rate not in  excess  of  the  rate  provided  for  in  the
  instrument  evidencing  the  obligation;  (iii) the actual expenditures,
  including reasonable attorney's fees, for necessary court  process;  and
  (iv) in case the savings and loan association insures a borrower under a
  credit unemployment insurance policy, group life insurance policy, group
  health  insurance  policy,  group  accident  insurance  policy, or group
  health and accident insurance policy, or requires insurance on  personal
  property securing any such loan, an amount not in excess of the premiums
  chargeable  in accordance with rate schedules then in effect and on file
  with the superintendent of financial services for such insurance by  the
  insurer.    No  savings and loan association shall require a borrower to
  purchase shares in the association, or to purchase  shares  in  lieu  of
  regular  periodic  installment  payments,  or  to do or refrain from any
  other act which would entail  additional  expense  or  sacrifice,  as  a
  condition  precedent  to  granting a loan or advance of credit under the
  authority of this paragraph.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  this
  paragraph  no  refund of excess fines shall be required if it amounts to
  less than one dollar.
    (c) Representing loans and advances  of  credit  for  the  purpose  of
  defraying  the  cost of attendance of one or more students the income of
  whose family is fifteen thousand dollars or more per year  at  the  time
  the  loan  or  loan commitment is made at a university or college or for
  the purpose of defraying the cost of attendance of one or more  students
  at  an  elementary  or secondary school providing education required for
  minors; provided, however, that no  such  loan  shall  bring  the  total
  unpaid  principal balances of any one or more loans made by such savings
  and loan association to the borrower pursuant to this  paragraph  to  an
  amount  in  excess of thirty thousand dollars; and further provided that
  the maturity of any such loan does not exceed  eighty-five  months;  and
  further  provided  that  the  rate which may be paid by the borrower for
  interest, discount, and  fees  of  all  kinds  in  connection  with  the
  transaction shall be the rate or rates agreed to by the savings and loan
  association  and the borrower, reckoned on each loan or advance from the
  date thereof, calculated on any of  the  following  bases:  (i)  on  the
  unpaid  principal  amount  of  such loans and advances from time to time
  outstanding, or (ii) for each month on an  average  balance  outstanding
  determined  by  dividing  by  two  the  sum  of  the  balances of unpaid
  principal of such loans and advances outstanding  on  two  dates  during
  such  month,  as  specified  in such agreement; the first of which dates
  being not later than the fifteenth day of  such  month  and  the  second
  being not earlier than the sixteenth day of such month and not less than
  ten  nor  more  than  twenty days after the first day, or (iii) for each
  month on a fixed amount selected from a schedule, which fixed amount may
  exceed the average daily balance under (i) above, or the average balance
  if determined under (ii) above, by a differential of not more than  five
  dollars,  provided  the  same  fixed  amount  is also used for computing
  interest for any month for which such balance exceeds said fixed  amount
  by any amount up to at least the same differential; and further provided
  that  the  loan  shall  be  paid in equal or substantially equal monthly
  installments calculated from the date of the note. No  fee,  commission,
  expense,  or  other charge whatsoever shall be taken, received, reserved
  or contracted for in addition to the rate of interest authorized by this
  paragraph except (i) the fees payable to the appropriate public  officer
  to  perfect any lien or other security interest taken to secure the loan
  or the premium, not in excess  of  such  filing  fee,  payable  for  any
  insurance  in  lieu  of  such  filing;  (ii)  in case of default, and in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  instrument  evidencing   the
  obligation,  either  a  fine  in  an amount not to exceed five cents per
  dollar on any installment which has become due and remained unpaid for a
  period in excess of ten days, but no such fine shall exceed five dollars
  and only one fine shall be collected on any such installment  regardless
  of  the  period during which it remains in default, and provided further
  that should the aggregate of such fines collected in connection with any
  loan exceed two per centum of such loan, or  in  any  event  twenty-five
  dollars,  the  savings  and loan association shall refund such excess to
  the borrower within sixty days after the  loan  is  paid  in  full,  or,
  subject  to an allowance of unearned interest attributable to the amount
  in default, interest on each amount past due at a rate not in excess  of
  the rate provided for in the instrument evidencing the obligation; (iii)
  the  actual  expenditures,  including  reasonable  attorney's  fees, for
  necessary  court  process;  and  (iv)  in  case  the  savings  and  loan
  association  insures  a  borrower  under a credit unemployment insurance
  policy, group life insurance  policy,  group  health  insurance  policy,
  group  accident insurance policy, or group health and accident insurance
  policy, or requires insurance on personal  property  securing  any  such
  loan,  an  amount not in excess of the premiums chargeable in accordance
  with rate schedules then in effect and on file with  the  superintendent
  of  financial services for such insurance by the insurer. No savings and
  loan association shall require a borrower to place any sum  on  deposit,
  or to make deposits in lieu of regular periodic installment payments, or
  to  do or refrain from doing any other act which would entail additional
  expense or sacrifice, as a condition precedent to  granting  a  loan  or
  advance  of  credit  under the authority of this paragraph, except under
  such terms and conditions as the superintendent may from  time  to  time
  approve.  Notwithstanding  the provisions of this paragraph no refund of
  excess fines shall be required if it amounts to less than one dollar.
    (d) Representing loans secured by mobile home chattel paper evidencing
  a monetary obligation incurred to finance the purchase of a mobile  home
  located  at  the  time  of such purchase, or to be located within ninety
  days, at a semipermanent site within the state or in a contiguous  state
  and  to  be  maintained  as  a residence of the borrower, the borrower's
  spouse, child, grandchild, parent or grandparent.
    (1) For this paragraph:
    (i)  "mobile  home  chattel  paper"  means  written evidence of both a
  monetary obligation and a security  interest  of  first  priority  in  a
  mobile home and any equipment installed, or to be installed therein, and
    (ii)   "mobile   home"  or  "manufactured  home"  means  a  structure,
  transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling  mode,  is
  eight  body  feet or more in width or forty body feet or more in length,
  or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or  more  square  feet,
  and  which  is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
  dwelling with or  without  a  permanent  foundation  when  connected  to
  required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning
  and electrical systems contained therein.
    (2)  If the loan is for the purpose of financing the purchase of a new
  mobile home,
    (i) it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after  the
  date thereof, and
    (ii)  the amount advanced to the borrower shall not exceed one hundred
  per cent of the sum of (a)  the  purchase  price  of  such  mobile  home
  (including  any  installed  equipment)  plus  (b)  the  price of any new
  equipment installed or to be installed by the dealer.
    (3) If the loan is for the purpose of financing the purchase of a used
  mobile home,
    (i) it shall mature not later than two hundred forty months after  the
  date thereof, and
    (ii)  the amount advanced to the borrower shall not exceed one hundred
  per cent of  the  purchase  price  of  the  mobile  home  actually  paid
  (including any installed equipment).
    (4)  The loan shall be payable in equal or substantially equal monthly
  installments calculated from the date of the loan. Interest,  which  may
  be  taken  in advance, may be charged thereon, computed from the date of
  the loan to the date of the last installment payable thereunder, if  the
  loan  has  a  maturity, (i) not exceeding thirty-seven months, at a rate
  not to exceed six dollars per annum discount per one hundred dollars  of
  the  face amount or ten dollars if the interest so computed is less than
  that amount, or (ii) exceeding thirty-seven months, at  a  rate  not  to
  exceed  five  dollars  per annum discount per one hundred dollars of the
  face amount provided that the interest charged, if  the  amount  thereof
  exceeds  ten  dollars,  shall  not  exceed one per cent per month on the
  unpaid principal balance.
    (5) The authorized interest shall be inclusive of all charges incident
  to investigating and making any loan. No fee,  commission,  expense,  or
  other  charge  shall  be  permitted  except  that  the  savings and loan
  association may contract to charge the borrower (i) the fees payable  to
  a public officer to perfect any lien or other security interest taken to
  secure  the  loan,  or  the  premium,  not in excess of such filing fee,
  payable for any insurance in lieu  of  such  filing;  (ii)  in  case  of
  default,   and   in   accordance  with  the  instrument  evidencing  the
  obligation, either a fine in an amount not to exceed five  per  cent  on
  any installment which has become due and remained unpaid for a period in
  excess  of ten days, but no such fine shall exceed five dollars and only
  one fine shall be collected on any such installment  regardless  of  the
  duration  of the default, and provided further that should the aggregate
  of such fines collected in connection with any loan exceed two per  cent
  of  such  loan  or twenty-five dollars, the savings and loan association
  shall refund such excess within sixty days after the  loan  is  paid  in
  full,  or,  subject to an allowance of unearned interest attributable to
  the amount in default, interest on each amount past due at a rate not in
  excess of one per cent per  month  during  the  delinquency;  (iii)  the
  actual  expenditures, including reasonable attorney's fees for necessary
  court process, and (iv) in case the savings and loan association insures
  a borrower under a credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,  group  life
  insurance,  health insurance, accident insurance, or health and accident
  insurance policy, or requires insurance on the  property  securing  such
  loan,  an  amount  not in excess of the premiums lawfully chargeable. No
  savings and loan association shall require a borrower to purchase shares
  in the association, or to purchase shares in lieu  of  regular  periodic
  installment payments, or to do or refrain from doing any other act which
  would entail additional expense or sacrifice, as a condition to granting
  a  loan  under this paragraph except as the superintendent may from time
  to time approve. No refund of excess fines need be made if it amounts to
  less than one dollar.
    (6) As a condition of any loan made pursuant to  this  paragraph,  the
  borrower  shall  certify that the mobile home, against which the loan is
  made, is intended to be maintained in the state or in a contiguous state
  as  a  residence  of  the  borrower,  the  borrower's   spouse,   child,
  grandchild,  parent  or  grandparent. If the mobile home shall not be so
  maintained on the ninetieth day next succeeding the date of the loan  or
  if  it  is  relocated  so  as  to no longer be located in the state or a
  contiguous state at any time before the first anniversary of  the  loan,
  the  loan  and  all  authorized charges shall become immediately due and
  payable subject only to the refund provisions of paragraph (d)  and  the
  borrower  may,  if  the  contract so provides, be required to pay, as an
  additional authorized charge, a penalty in an amount not to  exceed  two
  per cent of the face amount of the loan.
    (7)  No  loan shall be made by a savings and loan association pursuant
  hereto if the total amount loaned  by  it  pursuant  to  this  paragraph
  exceeds,  or  by the making of such loan will exceed, an amount equal to
  five per cent of the assets of the savings and loan association.
    (8) Subject to such limitations and conditions as  the  superintendent
  of financial services may prescribe by general regulation, a savings and
  loan  association  may  make a loan pursuant to this paragraph which the
  federal housing administrator has insured or has made  a  commitment  to
  insure  and  may  receive  and hold such debentures as are issued by the
  federal housing administrator in payment of such insurance, or which  is
  guaranteed  pursuant  to  the provisions of the act of congress entitled
  the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act  of  l944."  No  law  of  this  state
  prescribing  or  limiting  the  interest  rate upon loans or advances of
  credit or prescribing a penalty for violation thereof or prescribing the
  nature, amount or form of security  or  requiring  security  upon  which
  loans  or  advances of credit may be made or prescribing or limiting the
  period for which loans or advances of credit may be made or limiting the
  amount of any class of loans, advances of credit or purchases which  may
  be  made  shall  be  deemed  to  apply  to  loans, advances of credit or
  purchases made or  to  loans  acquired  by  purchase  pursuant  to  this
  subparagraph.
    (e) A borrower may prepay any loan made pursuant to paragraph (b), (c)
  or (d) in full or, with the consent of the savings and loan association,
  may  refinance the loan. In the event of such prepayment or refinancing,
  the savings and loan association shall refund: (1) the unearned  portion
  of  the  interest  to  the borrower the amount of which portion shall be
  determined according to a generally accepted actuarial method; provided,
  however, that if the amount of interest previously deducted (i) was less
  than ten dollars, no refund shall be required; or (ii) exceeded the  sum
  of  ten  dollars  and  the earned interest is less than that amount, the
  savings and loan association may retain such  an  additional  amount  as
  will  bring the earned interest to the sum of ten dollars and refund the
  remainder,  and provided further, that unless the loan is refinanced, no
  refund shall be required if it amounts to less than one dollar; and  (2)
  if  a  charge  was  made  to  the borrower for premiums for insuring the
  borrower under  a  credit  unemployment  insurance  policy,  group  life
  insurance  policy,  or  under  a  group  health, group accident or group
  health and accident insurance policy, the excess of the  charge  to  the
  borrower  therefor  over the premiums paid or payable by the savings and
  loan association, if such premiums were paid or payable by  the  savings
  and  loan  association  periodically,  or  the refund for such insurance
  premium received or receivable by the savings and loan  association,  if
  such  premium  was paid or payable in a lump sum by the savings and loan
  association, provided that no  such  refund  shall  be  required  if  it
  amounts  to  less  than one dollar. In the event (i) the maturity of the
  loan is accelerated due to the default of the borrower or otherwise  and
  judgment  is  obtained,  or  (ii) repayment is made pursuant to any such
  insurance policy, the borrower or his legal representative, as the  case
  may  be,  shall  be  entitled to the same refund as if the loan had been
  prepaid in full on the date of acceleration or repayment.
    2-a. A savings and loan association may lend its  funds  to  borrowers
  therefrom upon their promissory notes representing loans for the purpose
  of  financing  the  purchase  of  or  refinancing  an existing ownership
  interest in certificates of stock or  other  evidence  of  an  ownership
  interest  in, and a proprietary lease from, a corporation or partnership
  formed for the purpose of the cooperative ownership of  real  estate  as
  provided in this subdivision.
    A savings and loan association may, subject to such regulations as the
  superintendent  of financial services finds necessary and proper, invest
  to an amount not exceeding the maximum per cent of the  loans  permitted
  to be made on real estate improved by a single family residence occupied
  by  the  owner, provided that for purposes of this section the amount of
  the purchase price shall be deemed to equal the appraised value of  such
  certificate  of stock or other evidence of an ownership interest, or, in
  the case of a refinancing, the appraised value of certificates of  stock
  or  other evidence of the ownership of an interest in, and a proprietary
  lease from, a corporation or partnership formed for the purpose  of  the
  cooperative  ownership  of  real  estate, for the purpose of financing a
  purchase of or refinancing an existing  ownership  interest  in  such  a
  corporation  or  partnership;  provided  (a)  such investment is secured
  within ninety days from the making of  the  loan  by  an  assignment  or
  transfer  of the stock or other evidence of an ownership interest of the
  borrower and a proprietary lease; and (b) repayments  of  principal  and
  interest  shall  be  effected  within  the  same  number  of  years as a
  conventional mortgage loan previously described in this subdivision. The
  maximum rate of interest which may be charged, taken  or  received  upon
  any loan or forbearance made pursuant to this subdivision may exceed the
  rate  of interest prescribed by the superintendent of financial services
  in accordance with section fourteen-a of this chapter by  no  more  than
  one and one-half per cent per annum.
    3.  A  savings and loan association may also lend its funds, if at any
  time such association has funds in excess of the amount needed for loans
  to its members, as follows:
    (a) To other savings and loan associations.
    (b) Upon bonds and mortgages and notes and mortgages upon real  estate
  to  the  same  extent  authorized  in  subdivision  one of this section,
  subject to the limitations therein.
    3-a. A savings and loan association may also lend  its  funds  to  its
  members  or  their  children  who  are  attending  or planning to attend
  colleges in this state or elsewhere, to assist  them  in  meeting  their
  expenses  of  higher  education,  where  such  loans  are  made  by  the
  association  and  (1)  guaranteed  by  the  New  York  higher  education
  assistance corporation in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  article
  fourteen of the education law, or (2) insured or covered by a commitment
  to  insure  or  are  guaranteed  or covered by a commitment to guarantee
  issued by the federal education  commissioner  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions  of the act of congress entitled the "Higher Education Act of
  1965". In such cases no further security for the repayment of such loans
  shall be required of the borrowers by the  association.  A  savings  and
  loan  association  may  also  lend its funds to nonmembers, for the same
  purposes and upon the same terms and conditions if, at  any  time,  such
  association  has  funds  in excess of the amount needed for loans to its
  members.
    4. No loan shall be made under the provisions of this section upon the
  security of a mortgage:
    (a) Which is not a first lien upon  the  property  described  therein,
  unless  all  prior mortgages, liens or encumbrances thereon are owned by
  such association; and no such prior mortgage, lien or encumbrance  shall
  be  sold,  transferred  or  assigned  by  such  association  until every
  subsequent mortgage, lien or encumbrance owned by  it  shall  have  been
  fully  paid  and satisfied; and further provided that whenever loans are
  made under both subdivisions one and three of this section upon the same
  real estate the limitations of amount applicable to the loan under  each
  subdivision shall be determined by first segregating that portion of the
  appraised value of the premises necessary to sustain the prior mortgage,
  lien  or  encumbrance,  and  the  limitation of amount applicable to the
  additional mortgage, lien or encumbrance shall then be  determined  with
  reference only to the remaining portion of the appraised value; provided
  further that the loan under subdivision three shall provide for equal or
  substantially equal periodic payments of interest and principal at least
  annually  in  amount  sufficient  to  pay  all  interest and effect full
  repayment of principal within thirty years;
    (b) Except upon the written and signed  certificate  of  an  appraiser
  appointed  pursuant  to  policies established by the board of directors,
  certifying to the value of the premises according  to  such  appraiser's
  judgment.  Such  certificate  shall  be  filed  and  preserved among the
  records of the association and any member shall have access thereto;
    4-a. A savings and loan association may, in addition to the  authority
  granted  under  any other subdivision of this section or subdivision six
  of section three hundred seventy-nine of this article, make a loan to  a
  natural person upon the security of a mortgage which is not a first lien
  at  the  rate or rates agreed to by the savings and loan association and
  the borrower, subject to  such  regulations  as  the  superintendent  of
  financial services may prescribe. Such regulations by the superintendent
  of   financial   services   may   include   such   restrictions  as  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  finds  necessary   or   proper,
  including  without  limitation,  a  restriction  as to the percentage of
  total assets which may be invested in such loans or a restriction on the
  loan to appraisal value of property securing such loan.
    For purposes of this subdivision, the term mortgage  shall  include  a
  lien on an existing ownership interest in certificates of stock or other
  evidence  of  an  ownership interest in, and a proprietary lease from, a
  corporation or partnership formed for the  purpose  of  the  cooperative
  ownership of real estate.
    5.  Every  mortgage  and  every  assignment of a mortgage taken by any
  savings and loan association shall be immediately recorded or registered
  in the office of the proper recording officer of the county in which the
  real estate described in such  mortgage  is  located.  This  subdivision
  shall  not apply to a participating interest in any mortgage which shall
  have  been  acquired  by  a  savings  and  loan  association  under  the
  provisions  of  section three hundred eighty-c of the banking law if the
  originating mortgagee shall have recorded such mortgage or an assignment
  thereof in the office of the proper recording officer of the  county  in
  which the real estate described in such mortgage is located.
    6.  Any savings and loan association may require either single premium
  reducing term, monthly premium reducing  term,  or  fully  paid-up  life
  insurance  or accident, health or disability insurance to be assigned to
  it by any borrower. When directed by the written order  of  a  borrower,
  the  cost of such insurance may be advanced and paid by the association.
  All such payments may be added to the unpaid balance of the loan.
    7. A savings and loan association shall have the power  to  waive  its
  right to enforce payment of a bond or note secured by a mortgage on real
  property and may waive its right to obtain a deficiency judgment against
  the borrower in the event of foreclosure of such mortgage.


::: 381:power_to_take_and_hold_real_estate_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 381.  Power to take and hold real estate; restrictions. 1. A savings
  and loan association may take, hold and convey real property as follows:
  (a) A plot whereon there is or may be erected a  building  suitable  for
  the  convenient  transaction of its business, from portions of which not
  required for its own use a revenue may be derived, and  a  plot  whereon
  parking  accommodations  are,  or  are  to be, provided, with or without
  charge, primarily for its customers or employees or both; provided  that
  the  aggregate of all investments of any savings and loan association in
  such plots and buildings or in the bonds and mortgages upon  such  plots
  or  buildings  shall  not  exceed  five per centum of the assets of such
  association except with the approval of the superintendent.
    (b) Such  as  shall  be  conveyed  to  it  in  satisfaction  of  debts
  previously contracted in the course of its business.
    (c)  Such  as  it  shall purchase at sales under judgments, decrees or
  mortgages held by it.
    (d) A whole or part interest in a "project" as defined in the New York
  state urban development corporation act, pursuant  to  sections  six  or
  eight  of  such act. An investment by an association in a single project
  shall not exceed one per centum of the assets or ten per centum  of  the
  net  worth  of such association, whichever is less, and the aggregate of
  all investments of an association in such projects  and  investments  in
  securities   pursuant   to   subparagraph  one-a  of  paragraph  (a)  of
  subdivision twenty-one  of  section  two  hundred  thirty-five  of  this
  chapter  shall  not  exceed  five  per centum of the assets or fifty per
  centum of the net worth of such association, whichever is less. For  the
  purposes  of  this subdivision, "net worth" of an association shall mean
  the excess of its assets at book value, less  allocated  reserves,  over
  known liabilities.
    * (e) Improved or unimproved real property (either by purchase, lease,
  exchange  or  otherwise),  or any interest therein, to erect, construct,
  rebuild, enlarge, alter, improve, maintain, manage and operate buildings
  or other improvements  of  any  description  thereon,  to  sell,  lease,
  sublet,  mortgage,  exchange  or  otherwise dispose of same and execute,
  perform  and  carry  out   contracts   for   construction,   alteration,
  improvement, maintenance, management or repair thereof, to make loans in
  connection  therewith,  as owner, co-owner or otherwise, subject to such
  specific or general approvals and limitations as shall  be  required  by
  regulations  promulgated  from  time  to  time  by the superintendent of
  financial services pursuant to this paragraph; provided,  however,  that
  no  activity  specified  herein  shall  be  undertaken  pursuant  to the
  authority contained  in  this  paragraph  until  the  superintendent  of
  financial   services   shall  have  issued  regulations  specifying  the
  limitations and requirements which shall be imposed in  connection  with
  the  investments  and  activities referred to herein, including, without
  limitation, the consideration of such  savings  and  loan  association's
  record  in  meeting  the  credit  needs  of local communities within the
  meaning of section twenty-eight-b of this chapter.
    * NB Expired June 30, 1988
    2. All real estate purchased by any such association or taken by it in
  settlement of debts due it, shall be conveyed to it directly by name or,
  subject to such regulations and restrictions as  the  superintendent  of
  financial services finds to be necessary and proper, may be taken in the
  name  of  a  duly  authorized  nominee,  and  the conveyance immediately
  recorded or registered in the office of the proper recording officer  of
  the county in which such real estate is located.


::: 382-a:power_to_act_as_trustee_under_selfemployed_retirement_trust_and_of_individual_retirement_account_investment_in_savings_account.html
 
    &#167; 382-a.  Power to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust
  and of individual retirement account; investment in savings account.  1.
  Subject   to   any   regulations  and  restrictions  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, a  savings  and  loan  association
  shall  have  power to act as trustee under a retirement plan established
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of   the   act   of   congress   entitled
  "Self-employed  Individuals  Tax Retirement Act of 1962", and provisions
  of law contained therein as amended, provided  that  the  provisions  of
  such  retirement  plan  require  the  funds of such trust to be invested
  exclusively in deposits in savings and  loan  associations  and  federal
  savings  and  loan  associations  whose principal offices are located in
  this state. In the event that any such retirement  plan,  which  in  the
  judgment  of  the  association,  constituted  a qualified plan under the
  provisions of said Self-employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962,
  and provisions of law contained therein as amended, and the  regulations
  promulgated  thereunder  at  the  time  the  trust  was  established and
  accepted by the association is subsequently determined not to be such  a
  qualified  plan  or  subsequently ceases to be such a qualified plan, in
  whole or in part, the association may, nevertheless, continue to act  as
  trustee  of any deposits theretofore made under such plan and to dispose
  of the same in accordance with the directions of the depositor  and  the
  beneficiaries thereof. No association, in respect to deposits made under
  this  subdivision,  shall  be  required  to segregate such deposits from
  other  deposits  of  such  association,  provided,  however,  that   the
  association  shall keep appropriate records showing in proper detail all
  transactions engaged in under the authority of this subdivision. As used
  in this subdivision, the term "deposits" shall include shares issued  by
  the association and time deposits held pursuant to section three hundred
  seventy-eight-a of this chapter.
    2.  Subject  to  any  regulations  and  restrictions prescribed by the
  superintendent of financial services, a  savings  and  loan  association
  shall  have  power to act as trustee of an individual retirement account
  established pursuant to the provisions of the act of  congress  entitled
  "Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of 1974" provided that the
  provisions of  the  written  governing  instrument  creating  the  trust
  require  the  funds of such trust to be invested exclusively in deposits
  in  savings  and  loan  associations  and  federal  savings   and   loan
  associations  whose  principal offices are located in this state. In the
  event that any such individual retirement account, which in the judgment
  of  the  association,  constituted  a  qualified  individual  retirement
  account under the provisions of said Employee Retirement Income Security
  Act  of  1974 and the regulations promulgated thereunder at the time the
  trust was established and accepted by the  association  is  subsequently
  determined  not  to be such a qualified individual retirement account or
  subsequently  ceases  to  be  such  a  qualified  individual  retirement
  account,  in  whole  or  in  part,  the  association  may, nevertheless,
  continue to act as trustee of any deposits theretofore made  under  such
  individual  retirement  account and to dispose of the same in accordance
  with the directions of the depositor and the beneficiaries  thereof.  No
  association,  in  respect to deposits made under this subdivision, shall
  be required to segregate such  deposits  from  other  deposits  of  such
  association,   provided,   however,  that  the  association  shall  keep
  appropriate records showing in proper detail all transactions engaged in
  under the authority of this subdivision. As used  in  this  subdivision,
  the  term  "deposits" shall include shares issued by the association and
  time deposits held pursuant to section three hundred seventy-eight-a  of
  this chapter.


::: 382-b:power_to_issue_certain_obligations.html
 
    &#167; 382-b.  Power  to  issue  certain obligations. 1. In addition to all
  other powers granted to it by other provisions of  law,  a  savings  and
  loan  association  may  issue  such  notes,  bonds, debentures, or other
  obligations or other securities as the superintendent may authorize.
    2. Subject to such regulations and restrictions as the  superintendent
  of   financial   services   finds   to   be  necessary  and  proper  and
  notwithstanding  any  other  provisions  of  law,  a  savings  and  loan
  association  may issue notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations or
  other securities subordinated to  deposits  in  such  savings  and  loan
  association;  provided  that,  unless the superintendent has given prior
  approval otherwise, the aggregate principal amount thereof at  the  time
  of  issuance  shall  not exceed twenty-five per cent of the net worth of
  such savings and loan association, exclusive of all such  notes,  bonds,
  debentures,  or  other  obligations or other securities. The proceeds or
  other consideration derived by a savings and loan association  from  the
  issuance  pursuant  to  this  subdivision  of  any  such  notes,  bonds,
  debentures, or other obligations or other securities shall be deemed for
  purposes of this chapter to constitute a part of the net worth  of  such
  savings and loan association. For the purposes of this article, the term
  "net  worth"  shall  mean  the  excess  of  assets  at  book value, less
  allocated  reserves,   over   known   liabilities,   including   deposit
  liabilities.


::: 382:power_to_borrow.html
 
    &#167; 382.   Power   to   borrow.  Subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may promulgate, a savings and  loan
  association  may  borrow money and pledge its assets as security for the
  repayment thereof if it has been authorized so to do by the  vote  of  a
  majority of its board of directors.


::: 383-a:rental_of_safe_deposit_boxes.html
 
    &#167; 383-a.   Rental   of  safe  deposit  boxes.  Any  savings  and  loan
  association may rent to its members safe deposit boxes in which to  keep
  personal property and papers of any kind.


::: 383:other_powers.html
 
    &#167; 383. Other powers. Every savings and loan association shall, subject
  to  the restrictions and limitations contained in this chapter, have the
  following powers:
    1. To become a member of the Savings and Loan Bank of the State of New
  York;  to  exercise  such  powers  as  may  be  conferred  upon   member
  associations  of  such Savings and Loan Bank; and to perform such duties
  and obligations as may be lawfully required of such member associations.
    2. To become a member of a federal home loan bank; and to have and  to
  exercise  all powers, not in conflict with the laws of this state, which
  are conferred upon any such member by the federal home  loan  bank  act.
  Such  savings  and loan association and its directors and officers shall
  continue to be subject, however, to all liabilities and  duties  imposed
  upon them by any law of this state and to all provisions of this chapter
  relating to savings and loan associations.
    3.  To  assume  and  discharge  such  obligations  to  Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation as may be necessary or required for the purpose of
  maintaining share insurance in such corporation.
    4. To receive money for transmission and to transmit such  money,  and
  to  sell  money  orders  and travel checks as agent for any corporation,
  association or joint stock company empowered to  sell  such  instruments
  through agents in the state of New York.
    5.  To  service  mortgages for others, and to render investment advice
  incidental to the purchase of and investment  in  mortgages  by  others,
  provided,  however,  that the superintendent of financial services shall
  have power to prescribe, by specific or general regulation,  the  extent
  to  which  and  the conditions upon which such mortgages may be serviced
  and such investment advice may be rendered.
    6. To service mortgages or to perform other services for  the  Federal
  National  Mortgage Association created under the housing act of nineteen
  hundred fifty-four, as amended from time to time, and to sell or  assign
  mortgages  to  such  association  and  in  connection  therewith to make
  capital contributions thereto, purchase stock thereof, and  do  any  and
  all  other  acts which under the laws and regulations applicable to such
  sales may be required to enable such sales to be effected.
    7. To sue and to be sued in all courts and to participate  in  actions
  and  proceedings,  whether  judicial,  arbitrative or otherwise, in like
  cases as natural persons.
    8. To have a corporate seal, and to alter such seal at  pleasure,  and
  to  use  it  by  causing it or a facsimile to be affixed or impressed or
  reproduced in any other manner.
    9. To make donations,  irrespective  of  corporate  benefit,  for  the
  public welfare or for community fund, hospital, charitable, educational,
  scientific,  civic  or  similar  purposes,  and  in time of war or other
  national emergency in aid thereof.
    10. To elect or appoint officers, employees and other  agents  of  the
  savings   and   loan   association,   define  their  duties,  fix  their
  compensation, and to indemnify corporate personnel.
    11. To have perpetual existence.
    12. To execute and deliver such guaranties as  may  be  incidental  or
  usual in the transfer of investment securities.
    13.  To  receive and repay demand deposits subject to those provisions
  applicable to such deposits, in the case of savings banks under  section
  two   hundred  thirty-seven  of  this  chapter,  including,  subject  to
  regulation by the superintendent of financial  services,  the  power  to
  charge  for  maintaining a demand deposit account or for honoring checks
  drawn on or accepting deposits made to such an account.
    The superintendent of financial  services  shall  have  the  power  to
  prescribe  by  regulation (a) the maximum charge which may be imposed in
  this state by a savings and loan association in connection with a  check
  or other written order drawn upon it on insufficient funds, irrespective
  of whether the instrument is paid, accepted or returned by the bank, and
  (b)  the  maximum charge which may be imposed in this state by a savings
  and loan association in connection with a check or other  written  order
  received by it for deposit or collection and subsequently dishonored and
  returned for any reason by the drawee.
    14.  To have and exercise all other powers necessary or appropriate in
  conducting the business of a savings and loan association.
    15. Subject to such regulations as  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services finds to be necessary and proper, and notwithstanding any other
  provision  of  law, to accept federal tax and loan accounts, the balance
  of which are payable on  demand  without  previous  notice  of  intended
  withdrawal and to pledge collateral to secure such accounts.
    16.  Subject to any limitations or other specific provisions contained
  in this chapter or any other statute of this state or  its  organization
  certificate,  and  as shall be appropriate in conducting the business of
  the corporation, and only for such activities which  are  authorized  by
  this  chapter  for  savings  and  loan  associations:  to be a promoter,
  partner, member, associate or manager of other business  enterprises  or
  ventures,  or to the extent permitted in any other jurisdiction to be an
  incorporator of other corporations of any type or kind.


::: 384:entries_in_books_restrictions_amortization_of_securities.html
 
    &#167; 384.  Entries in books; restrictions; amortization of securities. 1.
  No savings and loan association shall by any system of accounting or any
  device of bookkeeping, directly or indirectly, enter any of  its  assets
  upon   its   books  in  the  name  of  any  individual,  partnership  or
  unincorporated association or of any other  corporation,  or  under  any
  title  or  designation  that is not truly descriptive thereof, except as
  authorized by the provisions of this article.
    2. The stocks, bonds or other interest-bearing  obligations  purchased
  by  a  savings and loan association shall be entered on its books at the
  actual cost thereof, and shall not thereafter be carried upon its  books
  at  a valuation exceeding their cost as adjusted by amortization for the
  purpose of bringing them  to  par  at  maturity;  and  where  securities
  purchased  at  a  premium  are  callable  prior to maturity, the rate of
  amortization thereof shall be increased when necessary to such extent as
  shall reduce the amount at which such securities are  carried  upon  the
  books  to  the  call price at the date or dates upon which a call may be
  made. No adjustment for amortization shall be required to be made on the
  books, except when the books are closed for  the  purpose  of  computing
  profits.  The  superintendent may by regulation vary the requirements of
  this subdivision to permit the amortization of premiums at the same rate
  as that required by federal tax statutes or regulations.
    3. No savings and loan association, without the written permission  of
  the  superintendent,  shall  enter  on its books its real estate and the
  building or buildings thereon, or its fixtures,  vaults,  furniture  and
  equipment,  at  a  valuation  exceeding  the actual cost thereof to such
  savings and loan association, or carry such  real  estate,  building  or
  buildings,  fixtures,  vaults,  furniture or equipment on its books at a
  valuation exceeding the actual  cost  less  appropriate  allowances  for
  depreciation.  No  adjustment  for  depreciation shall be required to be
  made on the books except when the books are closed for  the  purpose  of
  computing profits.
    4. Real estate acquired by an association other than that acquired for
  use  as  a  place  of  business,  shall  be  entered on the books of the
  association in conformity with the method  of  accounting  for  troubled
  debt restructurings approved by the financial accounting standards board
  or  such  other method of accounting as may be authorized or required by
  rules and regulations of the superintendent.
    The  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  not,  except   as   the
  superintendent may otherwise require, apply to any parcel of real estate
  as to which the savings and loan association has exercised its option to
  transfer  or  convey  such real estate to the veterans administration or
  the federal housing commissioner pursuant to insurance or guaranty.
    5. Every savings and loan association  shall  conform  its  method  of
  keeping its books and records to such orders in respect thereto as shall
  have  been  made  and promulgated by the superintendent. Any savings and
  loan association that refuses or neglects to obey any such  order  shall
  be  subject  to a penalty in an amount as determined pursuant to section
  forty-four of this chapter for each day it so refuses or neglects.


::: 385:surplus_account.html
 
    &#167; 385.  Surplus  account.  Every  savings  and  loan association shall
  accumulate and maintain a surplus account as provided in  section  three
  hundred eighty-seven of this article. Such surplus account up to ten per
  centum  of  the  association's  capital  shall  not be available for any
  purpose, except with the prior written approval of  the  superintendent;
  but  any  such  association may: (a) charge against such surplus account
  any losses or expenses without such approval  only  in  the  event  such
  association  has  no  undivided  profits  against  which  such losses or
  expenses may be charged or (b) may, with the prior written  approval  of
  the  superintendent,  transfer  any  part of such surplus account to any
  other account for any purpose. Such account may be created or  increased
  by  contributions  and  by  transfers from undivided profits or from net
  profits.


::: 386:profits_how_and_when_to_be_computed.html
 
    &#167; 386. Profits; how and when to be computed. 1. Every savings and loan
  association  shall  close  its  books,  for the purpose of computing its
  profits, at the end of any period for which a dividend is to be paid and
  in no event less frequently than quarterly. To determine the  amount  of
  gross  income  for any such accounting period the following items may be
  included:
    (a) All income received or properly accrued, provided that no interest
  shall be accrued upon any interest-bearing asset upon which a default of
  principal or interest has existed for a period which shall be determined
  by the superintendent, except for  interest-bearing  assets  secured  by
  collateral  the  ascertained  value  of  which  is at least equal to the
  amount at which such asset plus all interest accrued thereon is  carried
  on its books.
    (b)  Amounts  added to cost for the purpose of amortizing discounts on
  securities purchased for less than par, provided that no discount  shall
  be amortized on securities upon which a default exists.
    (c)  Any  profits actually realized from the sale or other disposition
  of securities, real estate or other property.
    (d) Amounts recovered on  assets  previously  charged  off,  including
  amounts  allowed  by  the superintendent on account of assets previously
  disallowed by him; and other amounts allowed by the board  of  directors
  on account of assets previously disallowed by it.
    (e)  Provided  the superintendent shall have approved, and only to the
  extent of such approval, any increase in the  book  value  of  the  real
  estate  and  building  or  buildings  thereon used by it as its place or
  places of business.
    (f) Such other items as the superintendent,  in  his  discretion,  may
  permit to be included.
    2.  To  determine the amount of net profits for such accounting period
  the following items shall be deducted from gross income:
    (a)  All  expenses  paid  or  properly  accrued,  both  ordinary   and
  extraordinary, in the transaction of its business, the collection of its
  debts and the management of its affairs.
    (b) Interest paid or properly accrued upon time deposits held pursuant
  to  section three hundred seventy-eight-a of this article, interest paid
  or properly accruing upon deposits referred to in section three  hundred
  seventy-eight-b of this article and debts owing by it.
    (c)  Amounts deducted from cost for the purpose of amortizing premiums
  on securities purchased for more than par.
    (d) Any losses sustained by it except to the extent that  such  losses
  have  been charged against the surplus account or valuation reserves. In
  the computation of such losses there shall be  included  all  deductions
  from  the  book  value  of  assets made pursuant to the direction of the
  board of directors or by reason of the disallowance  of  assets  by  the
  superintendent.  The  balance  thus  obtained  shall  constitute the net
  profits of such savings and loan association for such period.


::: 387:credits_to_surplus_account_and_undivided_profits_dividends_to_shareholders.html
 
    &#167; 387.  Credits to surplus account and undivided profits; dividends to
  shareholders.  1.  When  the  net  profits  of  any  savings  and   loan
  association  have  been determined at the close of an accounting period,
  if its net worth does not equal ten per centum of its capital, such  net
  profits  shall  be credited to its surplus account in such amount as may
  be determined by the superintendent of financial services until such net
  worth equals ten per  centum  of  its  capital.  For  purposes  of  this
  article,  the  term  "net worth" shall mean the excess of assets at book
  value, less allocated reserves, over known liabilities. The  balance  of
  such  net  profits,  together  with  any  amounts remaining from similar
  balances for previous accounting periods, shall constitute the undivided
  profits of such savings and  loan  association  at  the  close  of  such
  period.  The  directors,  in  addition  to  the transfers to the surplus
  account required by this section, may  transfer  additional  amounts  to
  surplus account from undivided profits or continue to carry as undivided
  profits  such  sum  or  sums  as  they may deem wise. Amounts heretofore
  credited to a reserve for bad debts pursuant to  chapter  three  hundred
  nine  of  the laws of nineteen hundred fifty-two shall be transferred to
  surplus account.
    2. The undivided profits of a savings  and  loan  association  at  the
  close  of  an  accounting  period  shall be available for dividends. The
  directors may declare such dividends pursuant to the provisions of  this
  paragraph  or  for  any  annual, semiannual, quarterly or monthly period
  closing on the last day of a calendar month or as provided in  paragraph
  (bb)  of subdivision four of section three hundred seventy-eight of this
  chapter.  No association shall declare, credit or pay any dividend while
  its capital is impaired, or at any time except by a vote of the board of
  directors.
    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  in  the  event  the  gross   income,
  undivided  profits,  surplus  account or net worth of a savings and loan
  association shall be, or shall be deemed by the  superintendent  to  be,
  increased as a result of any loan, purchase of assets or guaranty by, or
  other  transaction with, any insuror of the accounts of such savings and
  loan association, including a transaction subject to subdivision two  of
  section  three  hundred  eighty-two-b of this article, the amount of any
  such increase in the gross income, undivided profits, surplus account or
  net worth of such savings and loans association shall,  with  the  prior
  written approval of the superintendent, be available for dividends.
    4. Dividends shall be apportioned upon the dues and dividends credited
  to  members,  provided,  however,  that,  except  in the case of special
  savings shares, no dividend shall be required to be  computed  and  paid
  upon  any  dues  credited  to  a member except from the first day of the
  month immediately following the  date  of  receipt  of  such  dues,  and
  provided  further,  that no dividend shall be required to be apportioned
  on shares having a book value of less than fifty dollars or  on  savings
  shares  issued  for  special  purposes  which  by  their terms are to be
  withdrawn by the shareholder within one year  from  the  date  of  their
  issuance.  Any such association may compute dividends upon dues credited
  to a member from the date of actual receipt of such dues. The by-laws of
  any such  association  may  provide  a  schedule  of  varying  rates  of
  dividends  for different classes of shares and different types of shares
  within any class.
    5. No savings and loan association shall declare  any  dividends  upon
  the  accumulations  on  any  share  for a longer period than that during
  which such accumulations have been held; provided,  however,  that  dues
  paid  upon  shares  not  later than the tenth day of any month, may have
  dividends declared thereon from the first day of the month in which such
  payment was made; and  withdrawals  of  shares  during  the  last  three
  business  days  of any dividend period or, in the event that one of such
  last three business days is a Saturday, deposits withdrawn upon  one  of
  the last four business days of any dividend period may receive dividends
  apportioned for the full period.


::: 388:fines_and_penalties_for_failure_to_make_payments_on_instalment_shares.html
 
    &#167; 388.  Fines and penalties for failure to make payments on instalment
  shares. 1. Where dividends on instalment shares are credited by  series,
  a  savings  and  loan  association  may impose fines upon the holders of
  instalment shares of a series, their legal representatives or successors
  in interest, if they neglect to pay dues, interest or premium when  due,
  but  such  fines shall not exceed one per centum per month of the amount
  in default for the period during which such dues, interest  and  premium
  shall  have  remained  in default, except that a fine at the rate of two
  per centum per month of the amount in default may be imposed during  the
  first three months of any default.
    2.  Where  dividends on instalment shares are credited individually to
  shares, a savings and loan association  may  declare  a  lower  rate  of
  dividend  on  instalment  shares upon which there has been a default for
  more than sixty days since the last declaration of  dividends,  provided
  that  such  dividend  shall  be  not  less  than sixty per centum of the
  dividend declared on like instalment shares not in default.
    3. Where dues on instalment shares are applied directly  in  reduction
  of  a  mortgage loan, a savings and loan association may provide, as one
  of the terms of the obligation, that interest may be added to the unpaid
  balance of the obligation on the first day of each  month  and  computed
  upon  the unpaid balance of the obligation due as of the last day of the
  preceding month.
    4. No fine shall be charged against or deducted from the dues actually
  paid by a member and no fines or penalties other than those provided  in
  this section shall be imposed for failure to meet payments on instalment
  shares.


::: 389:matured_shares_conversion_into_shares_of_another_class_upon_notice.html
 
    &#167; 389.  Matured  shares;  conversion into shares of another class upon
  notice.   Whenever the dues and  dividends  credited  to  instalment  or
  accumulative  prepaid  shares shall equal their matured value, notice of
  such maturity shall be given to the holders thereof and the  payment  of
  dues   thereon  shall  cease.  Such  notice  shall  be  mailed  to  such
  shareholder at his last known address as it appears on the books of  the
  association  and,  in  the  discretion  of  the  board of directors, may
  contain a further provision that if such  shareholder  fails  to  accept
  payment  for  such  shares,  convert  such shares into shares of another
  class or file an application to withdraw such shares within  sixty  days
  after  the  mailing  of  such  notice,  the  same will be converted into
  another class of shares specified in such  notice.  If  such  additional
  provision  has been included in such notice and the shareholder fails or
  neglects to accept payment for such shares,  convert  such  shares  into
  shares  of another class or file an application to withdraw such shares,
  within such sixty days, the  board  of  directors  may,  by  resolution,
  convert  such  shares into the class of shares specified in such notice.
  For the purpose of maturing such  shares,  a  special  dividend  may  be
  credited  between  regular  dividend dates at the same rate at which the
  last  regular  dividend  was  credited.  When  shares  pledged  to   the
  association mature, the value of such shares shall, to the extent of the
  obligation  for  which  they are pledged, be applied in payment thereof.
  Any remaining balance of such shares shall be treated as matured  shares
  and  any  other collateral not required to satisfy such obligation shall
  be returned.


::: 38:power_of_subpoena.html
 
    &#167; 38. Power of subpoena. 1. The superintendent shall have power at all
  times,  either  personally  or by his deputies, including special deputy
  superintendents, or examiners, to subpoena witnesses,  to  compel  their
  attendance,  to administer an oath, to examine any person under oath and
  to require  the  production  of  any  relevant  books  or  papers.  Such
  examination  may  be  conducted  on  any  subject relating to the duties
  imposed upon, or the powers vested  in,  the  superintendent  under  the
  provisions of this chapter. Any corporation, association, partnership or
  individual  which  fails  to  obey  the  command  of  a subpoena without
  reasonable excuse or refuses, without reasonable cause, to be  sworn  or
  to  be  examined  or  to answer a question or to produce a book or paper
  when ordered so to do by the officer duly conducting  such  inquiry,  or
  fails  to  perform  any act required hereunder to be performed, shall be
  guilty of a misdemeanor and shall also be  subject  to  the  compulsions
  provided  by the civil practice law and rules. Any officer participating
  in such inquiry and any person examined as a witness upon  such  inquiry
  who  shall disclose to any person other than the superintendent the name
  of any witness examined or any  other  information  obtained  upon  such
  inquiry,  except as directed by the superintendent, shall be guilty of a
  misdemeanor.
    2. In any such investigation before the superintendent or  before  his
  deputy  or  any  other  officer  duly  designated by him to conduct such
  investigation, the superintendent or such deputy or officer  may  confer
  immunity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of section 50.20 of the
  criminal procedure law.


::: 390:withdrawal_of_unpledged_shares_provisions_for_dividends.html
 
    &#167; 390.  Withdrawal  of  unpledged shares; provisions for dividends. 1.
  The accumulations upon shares of any savings and loan association  which
  are not pledged to the association to secure a loan, whether or not such
  shares  are  matured, may be withdrawn subject to the provisions of this
  chapter and of the by-laws and regulations of the  association  made  in
  accordance  therewith.  In addition to his rights as a shareholder of an
  association, a shareholder shall be a creditor of the association to the
  extent of all dues and dividends credited to him. An association may  by
  regulation  adopted  by  resolution  of its board of directors require a
  written notice of thirty days before paying withdrawals, in which  event
  no  withdrawal shall be paid until thirty days after notice of intention
  to make the withdrawal shall have been filed. It shall on the  day  such
  regulation  is  made effective notify the superintendent by telephone or
  telegraph that such  regulation  has  been  made  and  shall  thereafter
  number,  date  and  file  in the order of actual receipt every notice of
  intention to make a withdrawal. Except  as  provided  in  section  three
  hundred seventy-eight-a of this chapter, no savings and loan association
  shall  hereafter  agree with any of its shareholders in advance to waive
  the said thirty days' notice. Except in  the  case  of  special  savings
  shares, if the by-laws so provide, a special dividend may be credited on
  shares  withdrawn between regular dividend dates at the rate of the last
  dividend, computing from the last dividend period to the  first  day  of
  the month in which such withdrawal is made.
    1-a.  A  savings  and  loan  association  may  permit a shareholder to
  withdraw the accumulations upon his shares of the association which  are
  not  pledged  to  the  association to secure a loan, whether or not such
  shares are matured, through a disbursing savings  and  loan  association
  that  is  a  member  of the federal deposit insurance corporation if the
  office of the disbursing  association  through  which  payment  of  such
  withdrawal  is  made is located more than fifty miles from the principal
  dwelling place  of  such  shareholder.  The  association  may  authorize
  payment  by  the  disbursing  association only upon receiving a specific
  telephonic withdrawal request, which may be  oral  or  electronic,  from
  such  shareholder, and the amount so paid shall be immediately withdrawn
  from the shareholder's account at such association. A savings  and  loan
  association  providing  withdrawal services pursuant to this subdivision
  one-a may, but is not required to: (a)  charge  a  fee  to  shareholders
  making  such withdrawals, (b) place a limitation upon the amount of such
  withdrawal requests, and (c) pay a fee to the disbursing association.  A
  savings  and loan association may also act as the disbursing association
  in a similar withdrawal transaction from such accumulations on shares in
  another association that is a member of the  federal  deposit  insurance
  corporation,  and  may  collect a fee for its services. This subdivision
  one-a shall not apply  to  time  deposits  received  by  an  association
  pursuant to section three hundred seventy-eight-a of this chapter.
    2.  If a member shall not apply for the withdrawal within fifteen days
  after the  expiration  of  the  thirty  days'  notice  of  intention  no
  withdrawal  shall  be  payable  under  such notice or by reason thereof.
  While any withdrawal application made pursuant to the required notice of
  intention remains in effect and unpaid, no withdrawal  application  made
  pursuant  to  a notice of intention subsequently filed shall be paid and
  no loan may be made secured by transfer or pledge of shares,  nor  shall
  shares be retired or applied by the association, or by the member toward
  the  payment  of fines and obligations due to the association, nor shall
  dividends be declared or paid.
    3. Upon the withdrawal of instalment or  accumulative  prepaid  shares
  prior  to their maturity, or upon the withdrawal of income shares issued
  for a fixed term prior to the expiration of such fixed term,  a  portion
  of  the  dividends  credited  to  such  shares  may  be  retained by the
  association as its own property, in accordance with a schedule,  clearly
  and  fully  set  forth  in  the by-laws. Such schedule shall make proper
  provision  with  respect  to  each  class  of  share, and in the case of
  instalment shares shall take into account the period  such  shares  have
  been  in  force,  provided,  however, that the portion of such dividends
  that may be retained by the association upon the withdrawal of  a  share
  shall  in  no  case exceed forty per centum of the dividends apportioned
  and credited upon such share.
    4. The board of directors may permit a member to withdraw part of  the
  accumulations  on  his  shares,  other  than instalment shares issued in
  series, without reducing the number of shares held by him.
    5. Subject to any  regulations  and  restrictions  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, a savings and loan association may
  accept  deposits,  including  demand deposits, without the issuance of a
  passbook in connection therewith, and may issue such other evidences  of
  its obligation to repay such deposits as may be appropriate to safeguard
  the interests of the depositors and of the savings and loan association.
    6. In case of conflict between this section and any other provision of
  law, this section shall control.


::: 392:retirement_of_shares_suspension_transfer.html
 
    &#167; 392.  Retirement  of  shares;  suspension; transfer. 1. The board of
  directors of any savings and loan association may  retire  shares  which
  are not pledged to the association by requiring their withdrawal, if the
  by-laws  clearly  state  the  manner  in  which  such withdrawals may be
  required. The holders of such shares shall be paid  the  book  value  of
  their shares less all lawful obligations.
    2.  Whenever  a  member of any savings and loan association shall have
  failed for six months to pay dues upon any instalment  shares  owned  by
  him,  such association may serve notice upon him to pay such dues within
  the time stated in such notice, which time shall be not less than thirty
  days. If such shareholder does not make such  payment  within  the  time
  stated  in  the  notice, the amount which would be due him if his shares
  were withdrawn shall be  determined  and  such  amount  transferred  and
  credited  to  him  in  a savings share account or a suspense account. If
  transferred to a suspense account, the rights of such member shall cease
  except the right to withdraw, subject to the provisions of section three
  hundred ninety of this article, the amount thus credited to him and such
  dividends as  may  be  credited  thereon  following  the  date  of  such
  transfer. Dividends on amounts in suspense accounts shall be credited at
  a  rate  of  at least three-fifths of the lowest rate at which dividends
  are apportioned to any type of instalment shares.
    3. No transfer of shares shall be binding upon any  savings  and  loan
  association  until  such transfer has been recorded upon its books.  The
  transferee of any share shall take the same subject to  all  liabilities
  to  the  association and all conditions attaching thereto at the time of
  the transfer. If the shares are in the names of two persons and  in  the
  form  to  be  paid  to  either  or  the survivor of them, the assignment
  thereof by one of such persons shall authorize the association to record
  the assignment upon its books or to accept it as collateral for a  share
  loan  made pursuant to subdivision two-a of section three hundred eighty
  of this article.


::: 393:repayment_of_mortgage_loans_application_of_pledged_shares.html
 
    &#167; 393.  Repayment of mortgage loans; application of pledged shares. 1.
  For the purpose of making payment on his mortgage loan a member  may  at
  any  time,  without  forfeiture  of  dividends, transfer from the amount
  credited upon the shares pledged by him as security, a sum equal to  the
  matured value of one or more instalment shares.
    2.  Any  mortgage  loan  made  by  a savings and loan association to a
  member may be repaid in whole or in part  at  any  time,  but  the  loan
  contract  may expressly provide for a period during which prepayment may
  not be made without incurring prepayment penalties. When such  provision
  is  contained therein, the loan contract must also expressly provide for
  prepayment penalties or no prepayment penalties may  be  collected  when
  the  loan  is prepaid. However, where a loan is secured by mortgage on a
  one to six family residence, or is extended to finance the purchase of a
  cooperative under subdivision two-a of section three hundred  eighty  of
  this  chapter  which  residence or cooperative is or will be occupied in
  whole or in part by the member, prepayment penalties may be imposed only
  during the first twelve months from the date the mortgage or cooperative
  loan was made and may not exceed:
    (a) Interest for a period of three months on the principal so prepaid;
  or
    (b) Interest for the  remaining  months  of  the  first  year  on  the
  principal  so  prepaid  if the prepayment is made at any time within one
  year from the date the loan is made.
    The book value of instalment shares pledged as security for  any  such
  loan  shall  be  deducted from the amount of the loan in determining the
  amount of principal upon which such interest may be charged.
    3. Whenever any mortgage is foreclosed, the withdrawal  value  of  the
  shares  transferred  and pledged to any such association as security for
  the loan shall be applied toward the payment of the indebtedness of  the
  member and his rights under such shares shall terminate.
    4.  In  event  of  the  voluntary  or  involuntary  liquidation of any
  association, the holder of shares pledged as  security  for  a  mortgage
  loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of subdivision one of section three
  hundred eighty of this article shall be entitled to have the payments on
  such shares and the  dividends  credited  or  entitled  to  be  credited
  thereon applied in reduction of such mortgage loan.
    5.  No shares pledged as security for a mortgage loan may be withdrawn
  while the mortgage loan against which they are pledged is outstanding.


::: 394:joint_shares_shares_of_minors_shares_in_trust.html
 
    &#167; 394. Joint shares; shares of minors; shares in trust.
    3.  When  shares  shall be issued in the name of a minor they shall be
  held for the exclusive right and benefit of such minor and free from the
  control  or  lien  of  all  other  persons  except  creditors,  and  the
  withdrawal  value  thereof shall be paid to the person in whose name the
  shares are held. A receipt or acquittance from such  minor  shall  be  a
  valid  and  sufficient  release and discharge to the association for all
  payments made on account of such shares. When shares have been issued to
  a parent, guardian or voluntary trustee for a minor the association  may
  permit the transfer of such shares to the minor by such parent, guardian
  or  trustee  and  in  the event of the death of such parent, guardian or
  trustee the association may  transfer  and  hold  such  shares  for  the
  exclusive  right  and  benefit  of  such  minor,  upon  presentation  of
  satisfactory evidence of such  death  and  upon  the  surrender  of  the
  certificate,  passbook or other proper evidence of the ownership of such
  shares.
    4. No association shall be liable to beneficiaries for moneys paid  to
  their  guardians  or  trustees, unless written notice of limitation upon
  the right of such guardians or trustees to withdraw such funds has  been
  previously  filed  with  the  association. The receipt or acquittance of
  such guardians or trustees shall be a valid and sufficient  release  and
  discharge  to the association for all payments made prior to the receipt
  of written notice of such limitation.


::: 395:alternative_provisions_relative_to_payment_of_interest_to_shareholders.html
 
    &#167; 395.  Alternative  provisions  relative  to  payment  of interest to
  shareholders. Notwithstanding any  provision  of  this  chapter  to  the
  contrary the superintendent may adopt such rules or regulations as shall
  permit  mutual  savings  and  loan associations to pay interest on share
  accounts at the option of such association.


::: 396-a:electronic_facilities.html
 
    &#167; 396-a.  Electronic  facilities.  A  savings and loan association may
  conduct a banking business, at automated teller machines,  point-of-sale
  terminals,  and  similar  facilities subject to regulations which may be
  promulgated by the superintendent of financial services. Such facilities
  shall not be deemed to be branches and shall not be subject  to  any  of
  the  provisions of this chapter applicable to branches; provided however
  that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes  of  paragraph  (b)  of
  subdivision  two  of  section  three hundred ninety-six of this chapter,
  such facilities shall be deemed to  be  branches,  and  such  facilities
  shall  be  subject  to the terms and conditions of section three hundred
  ninety-six, and for purposes of section twenty-eight-b of this  chapter,
  such facilities shall be deemed to be branches.


::: 396-b:acceptance_of_united_states_currency.html
 
    &#167; 396-b.  Acceptance  of  United  States currency. No savings and loan
  association shall  impose  a  fee,  commission  or  service  charge  for
  accepting for deposit or exchanging for other United States currency any
  United  States  currency provided that any coins are properly rolled and
  have the customer's account number for that savings and loan association
  displayed on the coin roll, provided further that no more than ten rolls
  of coins in any denomination are presented for deposit  or  exchange  at
  any one time.


::: 396:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office_maintenance_of_branch_office.html
 
    &#167; 396.  Change of location; change of designation of principal office;
  maintenance of branch office. 1. Any savings and  loan  association  may
  make a written application to the superintendent, such application to be
  accompanied  by  an  investigation fee as prescribed pursuant to section
  eighteen-a of this chapter, for leave to change its place or one of  its
  places  of business to another place in the state or for leave to change
  the designation of its principal office to a branch office and to change
  the designation of one of its branch offices to  its  principal  office.
  The  application  shall state the reasons for such proposed change. Such
  change may be made upon the written approval of the  superintendent.  If
  the  superintendent  shall  grant his or her certificate authorizing the
  change of location, the association may, upon or after the day specified
  in the certificate, remove its property  and  effects  to  the  location
  designated therein.
    2.  (a) A savings and loan association may open and occupy one or more
  branch offices at any location in the state. In addition, a savings  and
  loan  association  may open and occupy a branch office or branch offices
  in one or more places located without the state of New York.
    (b) Except for the city or village in which its  principal  office  is
  located,  no branch office may hereafter be opened and occupied pursuant
  to paragraph (a) of this subdivision in  any  city  or  village  with  a
  population  of less than thirty thousand and in which is already located
  the principal office of  a  bank,  trust  company  or  national  banking
  association,  other  than  a  bank holding company, if such bank holding
  company is a banking institution, or a  banking  subsidiary  of  a  bank
  holding   company,  as  such  terms  "bank  holding  company",  "banking
  institution" and "banking subsidiary" are defined in section one hundred
  forty-one of this chapter except that the definition  of  "bank  holding
  company"  is  modified  to  change  the  phrase  "a banking institution"
  wherever it appears therein to " two or more banking  institutions"  and
  the  definition  of  "banking institution" is modified to add a national
  banking association,  the  principal  office  of  which  institution  is
  located in this state.
    (c)  Before any branch office shall be opened and occupied pursuant to
  this subdivision two, the superintendent shall have  given  his  written
  approval.
    (d)  The  term  "village" as used in this section shall mean either an
  incorporated or an unincorporated village.
    3. (a) A savings and loan association may,  if  the  merger  or  asset
  acquisition   agreement  so  provides,  and  if  such  merger  or  asset
  acquisition is permitted by law, maintain as a branch office  or  branch
  offices  the  place  or  places  of  business  of  any  savings and loan
  association, savings bank, federal savings  bank,  federal  savings  and
  loan  association,  bank,  trust company, national bank, or out-of-state
  bank (as such term is defined in section two hundred twenty-two of  this
  chapter) which it has received into itself pursuant to the provisions of
  this  chapter  which  were  in existence at the time the merger or asset
  acquisition becomes  effective,  including  any  branch  office  of  the
  savings  and  loan  association,  savings bank, or bank or trust company
  with which it has merged or from which it has acquired assets, which has
  been approved pursuant to paragraph  (c)  of  subdivision  two  of  this
  section or subdivision three of section two hundred forty or subdivision
  two  of  section  one  hundred five of this chapter, even if such branch
  office is not in operation at the time the merger or  asset  acquisition
  becomes  effective and may maintain, as its principal office rather than
  as a branch office, the principal office of such institution with  which
  it  has  merged  or  from  which  it has acquired assets (so long as the
  principal office is located in this state), in which  event  the  former
  principal  office  of  the receiving savings and loan association may be
  maintained as a branch office.
    (b)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph (a) of this
  subdivision, any public accommodation  office  of  a  savings  and  loan
  association,  savings  bank,  or  bank  or trust company, which has been
  merged or had assets  acquired  in  an  asset  acquisition  transaction,
  including  any  such  office which has been approved pursuant to section
  one hundred ninety-one of this chapter but which is not in operation  at
  the  time  said  merger  or  asset acquisition becomes effective, may be
  maintained by the receiving savings and loan  association  as  a  public
  accommodation office only.
    3-a.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subdivisions two and
  three of this section,  a  savings  and  loan  association  may,  if  so
  provided  in  an agreement made pursuant to section six hundred one-c of
  this chapter, maintain as a branch office or offices the place or places
  of business of any savings bank or savings and loan association which it
  has acquired pursuant to such agreement.


::: 397-a:report_to_directors.html
 
    &#167; 397-a.  Report to directors. The board of directors of every savings
  and loan association shall designate, by resolution duly recorded in the
  minutes, an officer or officers whose duty it shall be  to  prepare  and
  submit  to each director present at a regular meeting of the board or to
  each member of an executive committee of not less than five  members  of
  such  board  present  at  a regular meeting of such committee, a written
  report containing such information and meeting such requirements as  are
  required  in  the  case  of reports submitted to the trustees of savings
  banks pursuant to section two hundred fifty-two of this chapter and such
  regulations  as  the  superintendent  may   promulgate   thereunder   or
  hereunder.  A  copy  of  such  report,  verified by the affidavit of the
  officer or officers charged with the duty of  preparing  and  submitting
  such  report,  together  with  a  list  of the directors present at such
  meeting, shall be filed  with  the  records  of  the  savings  and  loan
  association  within one day after such meeting, and shall be presumptive
  evidence  of  the  matters  therein  stated.  The   superintendent,   by
  regulation,  may require the preparation and submission of such a report
  to directors at dates other than those required herein.


::: 397:number_qualifications_and_disqualifications_of_directors_oath_quorum_meeting_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 397.  Number,  qualifications  and  disqualifications  of directors;
  oath; quorum; meeting of directors. 1. The affairs of every savings  and
  loan  association shall be managed and its corporate powers exercised by
  a board of directors, in number  not  less  than  seven  nor  more  than
  fifteen,  except  that  in the case of the merger of two or more savings
  and loan associations or one or more savings banks into  a  savings  and
  loan association and if the merger agreement so provides, the authorized
  number of directors of the resulting association may be increased to not
  more  than twenty-four, provided that thereafter the number of directors
  shall be reduced to fifteen by the elimination of one authorized  office
  for every two vacancies that occur.
    2.  (a)  All  directors of a savings and loan association must be over
  the age of eighteen years and citizens of the United States.
    (b) No person shall be eligible to  election  as  a  director  of  any
  savings and loan association
    (1)  Unless  he is the owner in good faith and in his own right on the
  books of the association of shares having a book value of not less  than
  two hundred dollars and every person elected a director, who, after such
  election  shall  hypothecate, pledge or cease to be the owner in his own
  right of such qualifying shares, shall thereby vacate  his  office,  and
  shall  not be eligible for re-election as a director for a period of one
  year from the date of the next  succeeding  annual  meeting.  Except  as
  provided  in  paragraphs  (c)  and (d) of this subdivision, every person
  legally qualified and duly serving as a director at the  time  this  act
  takes  effect, may continue as such director until the expiration of the
  term for which he was elected or appointed, but shall  not  be  eligible
  for   re-election   unless   he  shall  meet  the  requirement  of  this
  subdivision.
    (2) If  he  would,  upon  his  election,  become  the  third  salaried
  full-time  employee  of the savings and loan association on its board of
  directors and if such board, with his election,  would  have  twelve  or
  less  directors,  or  if  he would, upon his election, become the fourth
  salaried full-time employee of the savings and loan association  on  its
  board of directors and if such board, with his election, would have more
  than twelve directors; provided, however, that with the written approval
  of  the  superintendent,  four salaried full-time employees may serve as
  directors of a savings and loan association resulting from the merger of
  two or more savings and loan associations or from the merger of  one  or
  more  savings  banks into a savings and loan association if, immediately
  prior to such merger, each such person was a salaried full-time employee
  and a director or a trustee of a merging institution.
    No director in office on April first,  nineteen  hundred  sixty-eight,
  shall  be  ineligible  for  the  office  of  director  by  reason of the
  provisions of subparagraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this subdivision.
    (3) If: (a) Such person's spouse is a director  or  one  of  the  five
  highest  paid  salaried  officers of the association; (b) Such person or
  such person's spouse is  the  grandparent,  parent,  child,  grandchild,
  brother,  sister,  aunt,  uncle, nephew or neice of a director or one of
  the five highest paid salaried officers of the  association;  or  (c)  A
  director  or  one  of  the  five  highest  paid salaried officers of the
  association is the spouse of such person's child, grandchild, brother or
  sister.
    No director in office on September first, nineteen hundred seventy-one
  shall be ineligible  for  the  office  of  director  by  reason  of  the
  provisions of subparagraph three of paragraph (b) of this subdivision.
    (c)  The  bylaws  of  a  savings  and loan association may prescribe a
  maximum age beyond which no person shall be eligible for election to the
  board of directors, and may prescribe  a  mandatory  retirement  age  of
  seventy-five  years  or  less  for  directors,  subject to the following
  limitations:
    (i)  No  person  shall  be eligible for initial election as a director
  after December thirty-first, nineteen hundred sixty-eight who is seventy
  years of age or more; and
    (ii) No person shall continue to serve as a  director  after  December
  thirty-first,  nineteen  hundred seventy-three who is seventy-five years
  of age or more, and the office of any such director shall become  vacant
  on  the  last  day  of  the  month  in  which  such director reaches his
  seventy-fifth birthday or on  December  thirty-first,  nineteen  hundred
  seventy-three, whichever is the later.
    (d) In the case of a savings and loan association which does not adopt
  a  bylaw  prescribing  a mandatory retirement age for directors prior to
  January first, nineteen hundred sixty-nine, or which does  not  maintain
  thereafter  a  bylaw  prescribing  such  a mandatory retirement age, the
  office of a director of such savings and loan association  shall  become
  vacant  on  the last day of the month in which such director reaches his
  seventieth birthday,  or  on  December  thirty-first,  nineteen  hundred
  sixty-eight, whichever is the later.
    3. Any director of a savings and loan association who shall default in
  any  contractual  payment on any obligation to such association for more
  than ninety days shall by reason of such default vacate  his  office  as
  director  and  shall not be eligible for re-election for a period of one
  year from the date of the next succeeding annual meeting and until  such
  default is cured.
    4. Every director of any savings and loan association, before entering
  upon  his  duties as a director, shall take an oath that he will, so far
  as the duty devolves upon him, diligently and  honestly  administer  the
  affairs  of  such  association,  and  will  not  knowingly  violate,  or
  willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions of law applicable
  to such association, and that he is the owner in good faith and  in  his
  own  right,  of  shares having a book value of not less than two hundred
  dollars standing in his name on the books of the  association  and  that
  the same are not hypothecated, or in any way pledged as security for any
  loan  or  debt, and, in case of re-election or re-appointment, that such
  shares were not hypothecated, or in any way pledged as security for  any
  loan  or debt during his previous term. Such oath shall be subscribed by
  the director making it, certified by an officer  authorized  by  law  to
  administer oaths, and immediately transmitted to the superintendent.
    5.  In  the  absence  of  a provision in the by-laws providing for the
  number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum, a majority of  the
  total  number  of  directors  which a savings and loan association would
  have if there were no  vacancies  shall  constitute  a  quorum  for  the
  transaction  of  business  or  of  any  specified  item of business. Any
  reference in this chapter to corporate action to be taken by  the  board
  shall  mean  such  action at a meeting of the board. Except as otherwise
  provided in this chapter, the  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  directors
  present  at  the  time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time,
  shall be the act of the board.
    6. (a) Unless otherwise provided in the by-laws, regular  meetings  of
  the  board  may  be  held  without  notice if the time and place of such
  meetings are fixed by the by-laws or the board. Special meetings of  the
  board shall be held upon notice to the directors.
    (b) The by-laws may prescribe what shall constitute notice of meetings
  of  the  board.  A  notice,  or  waiver  of notice, need not specify the
  purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board, unless  required
  by the by-laws.
    (c)  Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who submits
  a signed waiver of notice whether before or after  the  meeting  or  who
  attends  the  meeting  without  protesting,  prior  thereto  or  at  its
  commencement, the lack of notice to him.
    (d)  A  majority  of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is
  present, may adjourn any meeting to  another  time  and  place.  If  the
  by-laws  so provide, notice of any adjournment of a meeting of the board
  to another time or place shall be given to the directors  who  were  not
  present  at  the time of the adjournment and, unless such time and place
  are announced at the meeting, to the other directors.
    7. Any officer elected or appointed by the board may be removed by the
  board, or his authority suspended by it, with  or  without  cause.  Such
  removal or suspension without cause, however, shall be without prejudice
  to  his contract rights. The election or appointment of an officer shall
  not be deemed of itself to create contract rights. This subdivision does
  not affect the powers of the superintendent under section  forty-one  of
  this chapter.
    8.  Upon the petition of any shareholder aggrieved by an election, and
  upon notice to the persons declared elected  thereat,  the  savings  and
  loan  association  and  such  other persons as the court may direct, the
  supreme court at a special term held within the judicial district  where
  the  office  of  the  savings  and  loan  association  is  located shall
  forthwith hear the proofs and allegations of the  parties,  and  confirm
  the election, order a new election, or take such other action as justice
  may require.


::: 398-a:forfeiture_of_office_of_director.html
 
    &#167; 398-a. Forfeiture of office of director. The office of a director of
  a  savings  and  loan  association shall become vacant whenever he shall
  have failed to attend the regular meetings of the board of directors and
  also of any committee of the board of which he is a member, for a period
  of six successive months, unless excused by the board for  such  failure
  by  resolution  adopted  at  the  first or second regular meeting of the
  board after expiration of such six months period, and entered  upon  its
  minutes.  A  copy  of  such  resolution  shall  be  transmitted  to  the
  superintendent by the savings and  loan  association  within  five  days
  after  its  adoption. A director who has vacated his office by reason of
  such failure to attend meetings shall not be eligible for re-election as
  a director until the expiration of one year from the date of  the  first
  regular  meeting  of  the  board  at  which a resolution could have been
  adopted by it, as herein provided, to excuse such failure.


::: 398-b:duties_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
  &#167; 398-b. Duties of directors and officers.
    1.  Directors  and  officers  shall  discharge  the  duties  of  their
  respective positions in good faith and with that  degree  of  diligence,
  care   and   skill  which  prudent  men  would  exercise  under  similar
  circumstances in like positions. In discharging their duties,  directors
  and  officers,  when  acting  in good faith, may rely (a) upon financial
  statements of the savings and loan association represented to them to be
  correct by the  president  or  the  officer  of  the  savings  and  loan
  association  having  charge  of  the  books  of  account, or stated in a
  written report by an independent public or certified  public  accountant
  or firm of such accountants fairly to reflect the financial condition of
  such  savings  and  loan association and (b) upon reports required to be
  submitted to them by any provision of this chapter or  prepared  in  the
  ordinary  course of business by an officer or committee charged with the
  responsibility therefor. Nothing in this  section  shall  be  deemed  to
  require  the  directors  to  perform  functions vested in any committee,
  officer or other person pursuant to the provisions of any other  section
  of this chapter.
    2.  An action may be brought against one or more directors or officers
  of a savings  and  loan  association  to  procure  a  judgment  for  the
  following relief:
    (a) To compel the defendant to account for his official conduct in the
  following cases:
    (1)  The  neglect of, or failure to perform, or other violation of his
  duties in the  management  and  disposition  of  the  savings  and  loan
  association's assets committed to his charge.
    (2)  The  acquisition by himself, transfer to others, loss or waste of
  the savings and loan association's assets  due  to  any  neglect  of  or
  failure to perform, or other violation of his duties.
    (b)  To  set aside a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the savings
  and loan association's assets by one  or  more  directors  or  officers,
  contrary to a provision of law, where the transferee knew the purpose of
  the transfer.
    (c) To enjoin such a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the savings
  and  loan  association's  assets  by  one  or  more  of the directors or
  officers where there is good reason to apprehend that it will be made.
    3. Subject to section six  hundred  thirty-one  of  this  chapter,  an
  action  may  be  brought  for  the  relief provided in this section by a
  savings and  loan  association  or  an  officer,  director  or  judgment
  creditor thereof.
    4.  This  section  shall not affect any liability otherwise imposed by
  law upon any director or officer.


::: 398-c:executive_committee_and_other_committees.html
 
    &#167; 398-c.   Executive   committee  and  other  committees.  1.  If  the
  organization certificate  or  the  by-laws  so  provide,  the  board  of
  directors,  by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board, may
  designate from among its members an executive committee consisting of at
  least five directors and other committees each consisting of two or more
  directors, officers or other persons, not including  alternate  members,
  but  not  less  than  may  otherwise  be  required  by  this chapter nor
  differing in composition from any requirement of this chapter, and  each
  of which, shall have such authority as may be provided in the resolution
  or  in  the  organization  certificate or by-laws or under this chapter,
  except that no such committee shall have authority as to  the  following
  matters:
    (a)   The   submission  to  shareholders  of  any  action  that  needs
  shareholders' authorization under this chapter;
    (b) The filling of vacancies in the board of directors or in any  such
  committee;
    (c)  The  fixing  of  compensation of the directors for serving on the
  board or on any committee;
    (d) The amendment or repeal of the by-laws, or  the  adoption  of  new
  by-laws;
    (e)  The  amendment  or repeal of any resolution of the board which by
  its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable;
    (f) The taking of action which is expressly required by any  provision
  of  this chapter to be taken at a meeting of the board or by a specified
  proportion of the directors.
    2. Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the board.   The
  designation  or  appointment  of,  or  making of provision for, any such
  committee and the  delegation  thereto  of  authority  shall  not  alone
  relieve  any director of his duty to the association under any provision
  of this chapter.
    3. Minutes shall be kept of each meeting of each  such  committee  and
  records  shall  be kept of all action taken in exercise of the authority
  or in performance of the function of each such committee.  Such  minutes
  and  records  shall  be submitted to the board of directors and shall be
  filed with the records of the association.


::: 398:filling_of_vacancies_in_board_of_directors_change_in_number_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 398. Filling of vacancies in board of directors; change in number of
  directors.  1.  Vacancies  in  the board of directors of any savings and
  loan association not exceeding one-third of  the  whole  number  of  the
  board  may  be  filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors,
  and the directors so elected may hold office until  such  vacancies  are
  filled  by  the members at a special or annual election. When the number
  of directors fixed by the by-laws of any savings and loan association is
  nine or more, two vacancies may, with the consent of the superintendent,
  be left unfilled until the next annual  election.    All  vacancies  not
  otherwise  provided  for  in this section shall be filled by election by
  the members.
    2. The number of directors may be changed within the  limits  provided
  in subdivision one of section three hundred ninety-seven of this article
  by  amendment  of the by-laws, except where the by-laws provide that the
  number of directors shall be not less than seven nor more  than  fifteen
  and  also  provide  the manner in which the number of directors shall be
  fixed within the minimum and maximum limits.
    3. Each vacancy in the office of director and each  reduction  in  the
  number  of  directors shall be reported to the superintendent within ten
  days after such vacancy occurs  or  such  reduction  is  effected.  Each
  election  of  a  director  shall  be likewise reported together with the
  name, address and occupation of the person so elected.


::: 399-a:restrictions_on_holding_of_certain_offices_by_executive_officers_of_federal_savings_banks_and_federal_savings_associations.html
 
    &#167; 399-a.  Restrictions  on  holding  of  certain  offices by executive
  officers of federal savings banks and federal savings  associations.  1.
  No  executive  officer  of  a  federal  savings  bank or federal savings
  association the principal office of which institution is located in this
  state may be an executive officer, director or trustee of a savings  and
  loan  association,  bank  or  trust  company, savings bank, bank holding
  company or foreign banking corporation  maintaining  a  branch  in  this
  state, unless permission therefor has been granted by the superintendent
  pursuant  to subdivision two of this section, provided, however, that an
  executive officer of a federal savings and loan association  located  in
  this  state,  who  on the effective date of this section is an executive
  officer, director or trustee of a savings and loan association, bank  or
  trust  company,  savings  bank,  bank holding company or foreign banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state,  may  continue  to  hold
  such  other office without permission from the superintendent, until the
  expiration of the term of such office or the close of  business  on  the
  last  day  of  December, nineteen hundred seventy-four, whichever occurs
  sooner.
    2. The superintendent shall have the power to determine by  regulation
  who shall be considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be
  an  executive  officer,  and  by  regulation  to  grant permission to an
  executive  officer  of  a  federal  savings  bank  or  federal   savings
  association  located  in this state, to be at the same time an executive
  officer, director or  trustee,  or  both  an  executive  officer  and  a
  director  or  trustee  of  a savings and loan association, bank or trust
  company,  savings  bank,  bank  holding  company,  and  foreign  banking
  corporation  maintaining  a branch in this state. Such permission may be
  granted only if in the judgment of the superintendent  such  service  by
  the executive officer will be consistent with the policy of the state of
  New  York as declared in section ten of this chapter. The superintendent
  shall  have  the  power  to  revoke   such   permission   whenever   the
  superintendent  finds,  after reasonable notice and an opportunity to be
  heard, that the public interest requires such revocation.
    3. For the purposes  of  this  subdivision,  the  term  "bank  holding
  company"  shall be given the same meaning as is contained in section one
  hundred forty-one of this  chapter,  and  the  definition  of  the  term
  "banking  institution"  is  modified to include a national bank, federal
  savings bank or federal savings association,  the  principal  office  of
  which  institution  is  located  in  this  state,  and a foreign banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    4. All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this  chapter  on
  executive   officers   and   directors   of  federal  savings  and  loan
  associations located in this state, shall continue in effect.


::: 399:restrictions_on_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 399.  Restrictions  on  directors  and  officers.  1. No director or
  officer of any savings and loan association shall  receive  any  salary,
  fees,  expenses  or other compensation for soliciting the sale of shares
  of the association to any person.
    2. No officer, director, attorney, agent or employee  of  any  savings
  and loan association shall discount or, directly or indirectly, purchase
  from  a  member of such association a share in such association, whether
  or not withdrawal application has been filed with respect to such share,
  except by payment therefor of the book value  of  such  share.  For  the
  purposes of this subdivision, the book value of a share shall consist of
  the  dues  and  dividends  credited  thereon  and dividends declared but
  withheld subject to payment at maturity.
    3. No director or officer of any savings and loan  association  shall,
  after  June  thirtieth,  nineteen  hundred thirty-nine for himself or as
  agent or partner of another borrow any of the funds of such  association
  or become the owner of real property upon which such association holds a
  mortgage;  except  that  such  officer  or director may borrow from such
  association on the security of shares held by him or on the security  of
  real  estate  owned  by  him  if  used and occupied by him as a home for
  himself or family, or may become the owner of real estate  so  used  and
  occupied  upon  which  the association holds a mortgage. As used in this
  subdivision, the terms "real property", "real  estate",  and  "mortgage"
  shall  be  deemed  to refer to ownership interests in, and security with
  respect to, a cooperative apartment unit.
    4. No director or officer of any savings and  loan  association  shall
  direct  or  require  a borrower on a mortgage to negotiate any policy of
  insurance on the mortgaged property  through  any  particular  insurance
  company or companies or through any particular insurance agent or agents
  and  broker  or brokers or attempt to divert to any particular insurance
  company or companies or any particular insurance  agent  or  agents  and
  broker  or  brokers, the business of borrowers from the savings and loan
  association, or refuse to accept any insurance policy because it was not
  negotiated through  a  particular  insurance  company  or  companies  or
  through a particular insurance agent or agents and broker or brokers.
    5.  (a)  No executive officer of a savings and loan association may be
  an executive officer, director or trustee of another  savings  and  loan
  association, bank or trust company, savings bank, national bank, federal
  savings  bank  or  federal  savings association, the principal office of
  which institution is located in this  state,  bank  holding  company  or
  foreign  banking  corporation  maintaining a branch in this state unless
  permission therefor has been granted by the superintendent of  financial
  services pursuant to paragraph (b) of this subdivision.
    (b) The superintendent shall have the power to determine by regulation
  who shall be considered, under the provisions of this subdivision, to be
  an  executive  officer,  and  by  regulation,, to grant permission to an
  executive officer of a savings and loan association to be  an  executive
  officer, director or trustee or both an executive officer and a director
  or  a  trustee  of  another  savings and loan association, bank or trust
  company, savings bank, national bank, federal savings  bank  or  federal
  savings  association,  the  principal office of which is located in this
  state, bank holding company or foreign banking corporation maintaining a
  branch in this state. Such permission may be  granted  only  if  in  the
  judgment  of  the  superintendent  such service by the executive officer
  will be consistent with the policy of the state of New York as  declared
  in  section ten of this chapter. The superintendent shall have the power
  to revoke such  permission  whenever  the  superintendent  finds,  after
  reasonable  notice  and  an  opportunity  to  be  heard, that the public
  interest requires such revocation.
    (c) For the purposes of  this  subdivision,  the  term  "bank  holding
  company"  shall be given the same meaning as is contained in section one
  hundred forty-one of this  chapter,  and  the  definition  of  the  term
  "banking  institution"  is  modified to include a national bank, federal
  savings  bank  or  federal  savings association, the principal office of
  which institution is located  in  this  state,  and  a  foreign  banking
  corporation maintaining a branch in this state.
    (d)  All other restrictions and limitations imposed by this chapter on
  executive officers and directors of savings and loan associations  shall
  continue in effect.


::: 39:orders_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 39.  Orders  of superintendent. 1. To appear and explain an apparent
  violation. Whenever it shall  appear  to  the  superintendent  that  any
  banking  organization, bank holding company, registered mortgage broker,
  licensed mortgage banker, registered mortgage  loan  servicer,  licensed
  mortgage  loan  originator,  licensed lender, licensed casher of checks,
  licensed sales  finance  company,  licensed  insurance  premium  finance
  agency,   licensed   transmitter  of  money,  licensed  budget  planner,
  out-of-state  state  bank  that  maintains  a  branch  or  branches   or
  representative  or  other  offices  in  this  state,  or foreign banking
  corporation licensed by the superintendent to do business or maintain  a
  representative  office in this state has violated any law or regulation,
  he or she may, in his or her discretion, issue an order describing  such
  apparent violation and requiring such banking organization, bank holding
  company,  registered mortgage broker, licensed mortgage banker, licensed
  mortgage loan originator, licensed lender, licensed  casher  of  checks,
  licensed  sales  finance  company,  licensed  insurance  premium finance
  agency,  licensed  transmitter  of  money,  licensed   budget   planner,
  out-of-state   state  bank  that  maintains  a  branch  or  branches  or
  representative or other  offices  in  this  state,  or  foreign  banking
  corporation  to  appear  before him or her, at a time and place fixed in
  said order, to present an explanation of such apparent violation.
    2. To  discontinue  unauthorized  or  unsafe  and  unsound  practices.
  Whenever  it  shall  appear  to  the  superintendent  that  any  banking
  organization, bank holding company, registered mortgage broker, licensed
  mortgage banker, registered mortgage loan  servicer,  licensed  mortgage
  loan  originator,  licensed  lender, licensed casher of checks, licensed
  sales  finance  company,  licensed  insurance  premium  finance  agency,
  licensed  transmitter  of  money,  licensed budget planner, out-of-state
  state bank that maintains a branch  or  branches  or  representative  or
  other  offices in this state, or foreign banking corporation licensed by
  the superintendent to do business in this state is  conducting  business
  in  an  unauthorized or unsafe and unsound manner, he or she may, in his
  or her discretion, issue an order directing the discontinuance  of  such
  unauthorized  or  unsafe  and  unsound  practices, and fixing a time and
  place  at  which  such  banking  organization,  bank  holding   company,
  registered   mortgage   broker,  licensed  mortgage  banker,  registered
  mortgage loan servicer,  licensed  mortgage  loan  originator,  licensed
  lender,  licensed  casher  of  checks,  licensed  sales finance company,
  licensed insurance  premium  finance  agency,  licensed  transmitter  of
  money, licensed budget planner, out-of-state state bank that maintains a
  branch  or branches or representative or other offices in this state, or
  foreign banking corporation may voluntarily appear before him or her  to
  present  any  explanation  in  defense of the practices directed in said
  order to be discontinued.
    3. To make good impairment of capital or  to  ensure  compliance  with
  financial  requirements.  Whenever it shall appear to the superintendent
  that the capital or capital stock  of  any  banking  organization,  bank
  holding  company  or any subsidiary thereof which is organized, licensed
  or registered pursuant to this chapter, is impaired,  or  the  financial
  requirements  imposed by subdivision one of section two hundred two-b of
  this chapter or any regulation of the superintendent on  any  branch  or
  agency  of  a  foreign banking corporation or the financial requirements
  imposed by this chapter or any regulation of the superintendent  on  any
  licensed  lender,  registered mortgage broker, licensed mortgage banker,
  licensed casher of checks,  licensed  sales  finance  company,  licensed
  insurance   premium  finance  agency,  licensed  transmitter  of  money,
  licensed budget  planner  or  private  banker  are  not  satisfied,  the
  superintendent  may,  in the superintendent's discretion, issue an order
  directing that such banking organization, bank holding  company,  branch
  or  agency of a foreign banking corporation, registered mortgage broker,
  licensed mortgage banker, licensed lender, licensed  casher  of  checks,
  licensed  sales  finance  company,  licensed  insurance  premium finance
  agency, licensed transmitter  of  money,  licensed  budget  planner,  or
  private  banker  make  good  such  deficiency forthwith or within a time
  specified in such order.
    4. To make good encroachments on reserves. Whenever it shall appear to
  the superintendent that either the total reserves or reserves on hand of
  any  banking  organization,  branch  or  agency  of  a  foreign  banking
  corporation are below the amount required by or pursuant to this chapter
  or any other applicable provision of law or regulation to be maintained,
  or that such banking organization, branch or agency of a foreign banking
  corporation  is  not  keeping  its  reserves on hand as required by this
  chapter or any other applicable provision of law or  regulation,  he  or
  she  may,  in  his or her discretion, issue an order directing that such
  banking organization, branch or agency of a foreign banking  corporation
  make  good  such  reserves  forthwith or within a time specified in such
  order, or that it keep its reserves on hand as required by this chapter.
    5. To keep books and accounts as prescribed. Whenever it shall  appear
  to  the  superintendent  that  any  banking  organization,  bank holding
  company,  registered  mortgage   broker,   licensed   mortgage   banker,
  registered  mortgage  loan  servicer, licensed mortgage loan originator,
  licensed lender, licensed  casher  of  checks,  licensed  sales  finance
  company, licensed insurance premium finance agency, licensed transmitter
  of money, licensed budget planner, agency or branch of a foreign banking
  corporation licensed by the superintendent to do business in this state,
  does  not keep its books and accounts in such manner as to enable him or
  her to readily ascertain its true condition, he or she may,  in  his  or
  her discretion, issue an order requiring such banking organization, bank
  holding  company,  registered mortgage broker, licensed mortgage banker,
  registered mortgage loan servicer, licensed  mortgage  loan  originator,
  licensed  lender,  licensed  casher  of  checks,  licensed sales finance
  company, licensed insurance premium finance agency, licensed transmitter
  of money, licensed budget planner, or foreign  banking  corporation,  or
  the  officers  or  agents thereof, or any of them, to open and keep such
  books or accounts as he or she may, in his or her discretion,  determine
  and prescribe for the purpose of keeping accurate and convenient records
  of its transactions and accounts.
    6. As used in this section, "bank holding company" shall have the same
  meaning as that term is defined in section one hundred forty-one of this
  chapter.


::: 4-a:banks_to_display_signs.html
 
    &#167; 4-a.  Banks  to  display signs. Every banking organization having as
  its purpose or  among  its  purposes  the  receipt  of  deposits,  shall
  continuously   display   a   sign,   or  signs,  as  prescribed  by  the
  superintendent of financial services, at each station or  window  within
  the  state  where  deposits  are  usually  and  normally received in its
  principal place of business and in all its branches  indicating  whether
  deposits  are  insured,  and  if insured the name of the insurer and the
  extent to which each depositor is insured. Signs in non-insured  banking
  organizations  shall  clearly  and legibly state "DEPOSITS NOT INSURED",
  all in letters of the same size and character. No sign shall  appear  in
  any  non-insured  bank  with  regard  to insurance or deposits except as
  herein prescribed.


::: 4-b:advertising.html
 
    &#167; 4-b.  Advertising. Every such non-insured banking organization shall
  include in all its  advertising  within  the  state  with  reference  to
  deposit  accounts  the statement substantially as follows: "DEPOSITS NOT
  INSURED". Where such advertising is printed the statement  shall  be  of
  such size and print to be clearly legible, all letters in such statement
  being  of  the  same  size  and character. No further reference shall be
  contained in the advertising of non-insured banking  organizations  with
  reference  to  the  insurance  of  depositors  which  shall  tend  to be
  misleading in connection therewith. The non-English  equivalent  of  the
  insurance  statement  may be used in any advertisement provided that the
  entire advertisement is in such language and that  the  translation  has
  had the prior approval of the superintendent of financial services.


::: 4-c:exemptions_from_certain_provisions_of_chapter.html
 
    &#167; 4-c.  Exemptions  from  certain provisions of chapter. Any uninsured
  banking organization whose assets are in excess of two  hundred  million
  dollars  shall be exempt from compliance with the provisions of sections
  four-a, four-b and four-c of this chapter unless otherwise  directed  by
  the superintendent.


::: 4001-a:formation_of_limited_liability_investment_companies.html
 
    &#167; 4001-a.  Formation  of  limited  liability  investment companies. 1.
  Notwithstanding the provisions of section  four  thousand  one  of  this
  title  and  when authorized by the superintendent as provided in article
  two of this chapter, five or more persons may form a  limited  liability
  investment  company pursuant to the provisions of article twelve of this
  chapter. Such person or persons  shall  subscribe  and  acknowledge  the
  articles of organization in duplicate which shall specifically state:
    (a)  the  name by which the limited liability investment company is to
  be known;
    (b) the place where its office is to be located;
    (c) the amount of its capital contributions;
    (d) if the company is to  have  classes  or  groups  of  members,  the
  relative  rights,  powers, preferences, limitations and voting powers of
  each such class or group;
    (e) the names and places of  residence  of  the  persons  forming  the
  company;
    (f) the duration of the company;
    (g)  the number of managers charged with the management of the company
  as its board, provided that such number shall be in accordance with  the
  requirements  set  forth  in section seven thousand two of this article;
  and
    (h) the names of the persons who shall manage the  company  until  the
  first  annual  meeting  of  the members, provided that such persons must
  possess the qualifications as to citizenship and residence specified  in
  section seven thousand one of this article.
    2.  No  limited  liability  investment  company shall be authorized to
  exercise the powers set forth in this chapter or the  limited  liability
  company law unless its capital contributions amount to not less than the
  amounts prescribed by the superintendent.


::: 4001-b:formation_of_limited_liability_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167;   4001-b.   Formation  of  limited  liability  trust  companies.  1.
  Notwithstanding the provisions of section  four  thousand  one  of  this
  title  and  when authorized by the superintendent as provided in article
  two of this chapter, five or more persons may form a  limited  liability
  trust  company  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  article three of this
  chapter. Such person or persons  shall  subscribe  and  acknowledge  the
  articles of organization in duplicate, which shall specifically state:
    (a)  the  name  by  which the limited liability trust company is to be
  known;
    (b) the place where its office is to be located;
    (c) the amount of its capital contributions;
    (d) if the company is to  have  classes  or  groups  of  members,  the
  relative  rights, powers, preferences, limitations, and voting powers of
  each such class or group;
    (e) the names and places of  residence  of  the  persons  forming  the
  company;
    (f) the duration of the company;
    (g)  the number of managers charged with the management of the company
  as its board, provided that such number shall be in accordance with  the
  requirements  set  forth  in section seven thousand two of this article;
  and
    (h) the names of the persons who shall manage the  company  until  the
  first  annual  meeting  of  the members, provided that such persons must
  possess the qualifications as to citizenship and residence specified  in
  section seven thousand one of this article.
    2.  No limited liability trust company shall be authorized to exercise
  the powers set forth in this chapter or the  limited  liability  company
  law unless its capital contributions amount to not less than the amounts
  prescribed by the superintendent.


::: 4001:incorporation_organization_certificate_amount_of_capital_stock.html
 
    &#167; 4001.  Incorporation;  organization  certificate;  amount of capital
  stock. When authorized by the superintendent as provided in article  two
  of  this  chapter,  five or more persons may incorporate a bank or trust
  company, a stock-form  savings  bank,  a  stock-form  savings  and  loan
  association,  a  safe  deposit  company  or  an investment company. Such
  persons shall subscribe and acknowledge an organization  certificate  in
  duplicate which shall specifically state:
    1. The name by which the corporation is to be known.
    2. The place where its office is to be located.
    3.  The  amount  of its authorized capital stock, the number of shares
  into which such capital stock shall be divided and the par value of  the
  shares,  which  capital  stock shall amount to not less than the minimum
  amount prescribed by the superintendent of financial services, nor  more
  than  the  aggregate  of (a) the amount of capital stock the corporation
  expects to  sell  in  its  initial  offering  of  shares  and  (b)  such
  additional  amount as may be approved by the superintendent of financial
  services.
    4. If the shares are to be classified:
    (a) The number of shares to be included in  each  class  and  the  par
  value of the shares;
    (b) The designation of each class and the relative rights, preferences
  and limitations of the shares of each class;
    (c)  The  number  of  shares  of common stock, if any, which are to be
  reserved for issuance in exchange for preferred shares or  otherwise  to
  replace any capital stock represented by preferred shares.
    5.  The names and places of residence of the incorporators and, in the
  case  of  banks,  trust  companies  and  safe  deposit  companies,   the
  citizenship of the incorporators.
    6. Its duration if other than perpetual.
    7.  The  number of its directors or that the number of directors shall
  not be less than a stated minimum nor more than a stated  maximum.  Such
  number,  or  the  minimum  and  the  maximum stated, shall be within the
  limitations prescribed by section seven thousand two of this article.
    8. The names of the incorporators who shall be its directors until the
  first  annual  meeting  of  stockholders.  The  incorporators  named  as
  directors must possess the qualifications of directors as to citizenship
  and  residence  specified in section seven thousand one of this article;
  and the certificate of a safe deposit company  shall  recite  that  such
  qualifications are possessed by such incorporators.
    9. In the case of a trust company, that the proposed corporation is to
  exercise the powers conferred by section one hundred of this chapter, if
  the  proposed corporation desires to exercise such powers in addition to
  the other powers conferred upon banks and  trust  companies  in  article
  three of this chapter.
    No corporation shall be authorized to exercise the powers set forth in
  section  one  hundred  of  this  chapter  unless its capital stock shall
  amount to not less than the amounts prescribed by the superintendent  of
  financial services.


::: 4002:fingerprints.html
 
    &#167; 4002. Fingerprints. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law,
  every  incorporator  of  a  corporation  shall, in addition to any other
  requirements  which  may  be  imposed  by  the  superintendent,   submit
  simultaneously with an application, his or her fingerprints in such form
  and  in  such  manner  as  specified by the division of criminal justice
  services, but in any event, no  less  than  two  digit  imprints.  Every
  applicant  filing  an  application  to  acquire  control  of any banking
  institution under sections one hundred  forty-three-a  and  one  hundred
  forty-three-b   of   this  chapter  shall,  in  addition  to  any  other
  requirements  which  may  be  imposed  by  the  superintendent,   submit
  simultaneously with an application, his or her fingerprints in such form
  and  in  such  manner  as  specified by the division of criminal justice
  services, but in any  event,  no  less  than  two  digit  imprints.  The
  superintendent shall submit the fingerprints to the division of criminal
  justice services for the purpose of conducting a criminal history search
  and  returning  a  report  thereon in accordance with the procedures and
  requirements established by the division pursuant to the  provisions  of
  article  thirty-five  of  the  executive  law,  which  shall include the
  payment of the prescribed  processing  fees.  The  superintendent  shall
  request that the division submit such fingerprints to the federal bureau
  of  investigation,  together with the processing fees prescribed by such
  bureau, for the purpose of conducting  a  criminal  history  search  and
  returning a report thereon.
    (b) The superintendent shall also, concurrent with an investigation of
  an  incorporator  of  a  corporation  pertaining  to a violation of this
  chapter, submit such fingerprints to the division  of  criminal  justice
  services  for  the  purpose  of conducting a criminal history search and
  returning a report thereon and  through  the  division  to  the  federal
  bureau  of  investigation for the purpose of a fingerprint check of such
  incorporator.
    (c) For purposes of  this  section,  "incorporator"  shall  include  a
  natural   person  or  such  principal,  officer,  director,  trustee  or
  stockholder  of  any  other  entity  as  may  be   designated   by   the
  superintendent.    Notwithstanding  any other provision of this article,
  the  superintendent  shall  not  access   criminal   history   data   or
  information,  unless  any  agency from which the superintendent receives
  directly criminal history data or information has entered into a use and
  dissemination agreement with  the  superintendent  consistent  with  the
  provisions of this section.
    (d)  An  applicant  shall  not  be  required  to  submit  his  or  her
  fingerprints as required by subdivision (a)  of  this  section  if  such
  applicant (i) is already subject to regulation by the department and the
  applicant  has  submitted  such  fingerprints  to  the  department, such
  fingerprints have been submitted to the  division  of  criminal  justice
  services  for the purpose of conducting a criminal history search, and a
  report of such search has been received  by  the  department  from  such
  division;  or (ii) is subject to regulation by a federal bank regulatory
  agency and has submitted such fingerprints to such agency which has  had
  a  criminal  history  search conducted of such individual and has shared
  such information or its determination resulting from  such  search  with
  the  department;  or (iii) is an officer or stockholder of a corporation
  whose common or preferred stock is registered on a  national  securities
  exchange,  as  provided  in  an  act  of  congress  of the United States
  entitled the "Securities Exchange Act of  1934",  approved  June  sixth,
  nineteen  hundred  thirty-four,  as  amended,  or such other exchange or
  market system as the superintendent shall approve by regulation, and has
  submitted such fingerprints to such exchange or market system which  has
  had  a  criminal  history  search  conducted  of such individual and has
  shared such information or its determination resulting from such  search
  with  the  department;  provided,  however,  that the superintendent may
  subsequently require such applicant to submit sets  of  fingerprints  if
  the  superintendent  has a reasonable basis for updating the information
  or determination resulting from  the  report  of  the  criminal  history
  search conducted at the request of such federal banking agency, exchange
  or market system.


::: 4003:organization_certificate_to_be_submitted_to_the_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 4003.    Organization   certificate   to   be   submitted   to   the
  superintendent. The organization certificate of a bank,  trust  company,
  stock-form  savings  bank, stock-form savings and loan association, safe
  deposit company or investment company, executed in duplicate,  shall  be
  submitted to the superintendent at his office.


::: 4004:when_corporate_existence_begins_conditions_precedent_to_commencing_business.html
 
    &#167; 4004.  When  corporate  existence  begins;  conditions  precedent to
  commencing business. 1. When the superintendent shall have endorsed  his
  approval  on  the organization certificate as provided in article two of
  this chapter, the corporate existence of the corporation shall begin and
  such corporation shall then have power to elect  officers  and  transact
  such  other  business  as  relates to its organization. Such corporation
  shall transact no other business until:
    (a) All of its capital stock, except such shares as may be reserved in
  accordance  with  any  provision  made  therefor  in  the   organization
  certificate, shall have been fully paid in cash and an affidavit stating
  that  it  has  been  so  paid,  subscribed  and  sworn  to by two of its
  principal officers, shall have  been  delivered  to  and  filed  by  the
  superintendent.
    (b)  In  the case of a bank or trust company, stock-form savings bank,
  or stock-form savings  and  loan  association,  there  shall  have  been
  delivered to and filed by the superintendent a list of its stockholders,
  verified  by  two of its principal officers, giving the name, residence,
  post-office address and the number of  shares  of  stock  held  by  each
  stockholder;  which  list  shall become a confidential communication and
  shall not be filed in the office of the county clerk or be made  public,
  unless,  in  the  judgment of the superintendent, the ends of justice or
  the public advantage will be subserved by the publication thereof;
    (c) The superintendent shall have duly issued to it the  authorization
  certificate specified in article two of this chapter.


::: 4005:organization_meeting.html
 
    &#167; 4005.  Organization  meeting.  1.  After the corporate existence has
  begun, an organization meeting of the incorporators shall be held within
  this state, for the purpose of adopting by-laws and the  transaction  of
  such  other  business  relating  to  organization as may come before the
  meeting. The meeting may be held at the call of  any  incorporator,  who
  shall  give  at  least  five  days' notice thereof by mail to each other
  incorporator, which notice shall set forth the time  and  place  of  the
  meeting.  Notice  need  not be given to any incorporator who attends the
  meeting or submits a  signed  waiver  of  notice  before  or  after  the
  meeting.  A  majority  shall  constitute  a  quorum  and  the act of the
  majority of the incorporators present at a meeting at which a quorum  is
  present shall be the act of the incorporators.
    2. Any action permitted to be taken at the organization meeting may be
  taken without a meeting if each incorporator signs an instrument setting
  forth the action so taken.
    3.  If an incorporator dies or is for any reason unable to act, action
  may be taken as provided in such event in subdivision three  of  section
  six thousand fifteen.


::: 400:pensions_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 400.  Pensions;  insurance.  Subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe, a savings  and  loan
  association may, in the discretion of a majority of all the directors:
    1.   Provide   pensions  to  officers  and  employees  pursuant  to  a
  nondiscriminatory plan for service rendered  to  the  savings  and  loan
  association  or  for having become incapacitated while in service to the
  savings and loan association, including annual supplements  to  retirees
  based  upon  the  "current cost of living index figure" for any calendar
  year based upon the Consumer Price Index as  issued  by  the  bureau  of
  labor statistics of the United States department of labor.
    2.  Provide  life  insurance  for its officers and employees, provided
  that life insurance is not purchased solely for or on behalf of officers
  and highly compensated employees.


::: 401:official_communications_to_be_submitted_to_directors_and_noted_in_minutes.html
 
    &#167; 401.  Official communications to be submitted to directors and noted
  in minutes. Every official communication, as defined in article  two  of
  this  chapter,  shall  be submitted, by the officer receiving it, to the
  board of directors at the next meeting of such board and  noted  in  the
  minutes.


::: 402:amendment_of_articles_of_association_and_bylaws.html
 
  &#167; 402. Amendment  of  articles  of association and by-laws. Any proposed
  change in the  articles  of  association,  certificate  of  association,
  organization  certificate  or  the  by-laws  of  any  savings  and  loan
  association shall be submitted  to  the  superintendent  and,  upon  the
  superintendent's   written  approval  thereof,  shall  be  posted  in  a
  conspicuous place in the office of the association for thirty days. Such
  proposed changes may thereafter  be  incorporated  in  the  articles  of
  association, certificate of association, organization certificate or the
  by-laws  of  the  association  by being duly adopted by its directors. A
  copy of such change shall be filed in the office of  the  superintendent
  within thirty days after such adoption.


::: 403:examination_by_directors.html
 
    &#167; 403.  Examination  by directors.  1.  Once in each calendar year the
  directors of every savings and loan association by a  committee  of  not
  less than three of their number, none of whom shall be salaried officers
  or  employees  of  such association, shall examine fully the records and
  affairs of such association for the  purpose  of  determining  its  true
  financial  condition.  Such  examination  shall be made as of a date not
  less than six months after the date of the previous such examination.
    2.  In the conduct of each such examination,  inquiry  shall  be  made
  into  the  policies of management for the purpose of determining whether
  such policies are sound and consistent with the requirements of law, and
  into such other matters as shall be necessary to enable the directors to
  determine whether adequate protection is afforded  to  shareholders  and
  depositors.
    3.    A  savings  and  loan  association's compliance with section one
  hundred twelve of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act of 1991,
  as implemented by the provisions of part three  hundred  sixty-three  of
  the  rules and regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
  as they may be amended from time to time, shall be deemed to satisfy the
  examination requirement of this section.
    4. The directors may employ such assistance as they deem necessary  in
  making  the  examinations prescribed by this section. Within thirty days
  after the completion of such examination, a report thereof, in such form
  as the superintendent may prescribe and sworn to by the directors making
  the report, shall be  presented  to  the  board  of  directors  of  such
  association  at  a  regular meeting, and placed on file in the office of
  the association. Within ten days after the presentation of  such  report
  to  the  board  of  directors  a duplicate thereof shall be filed in the
  office of the superintendent, together  with  a  certificate  that  such
  report  was  presented to the board of directors, in the form prescribed
  by the superintendent.


::: 404-a:photographic_reproduction_of_records.html
 
    &#167; 404-a.   Photographic   reproduction  of  records.  Any  photograph,
  microphotograph or reproduction on film of  any  of  the  documents  and
  records  of  a  savings  and loan association relating to the members of
  such savings and loan association and the  operation  of  its  business,
  which  such  savings  and  loan association has caused to be made in the
  conduct of its business, shall be deemed to be  the  equivalent  of  the
  original  thereof  for  all  purposes, provided that the original of any
  such documents and records has been  destroyed,  that  such  photograph,
  microphotograph  or  reproduction  on film shall be of durable material,
  and that the device used to reproduce such documents and  records  shall
  be one which accurately reproduces the original thereof in all details.


::: 404:reports_to_the_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167; 404.  Reports to the superintendent; penalty for failure to make. 1.
  On or before the first day in February in each year, every  savings  and
  loan association shall make a written report to the superintendent which
  shall  contain  a  statement  of  its condition as of the morning of the
  first day of January in  such  year.  Such  report  shall  contain  such
  information  and be in such form as the superintendent may prescribe and
  shall be subscribed and affirmed as true under the penalties of  perjury
  by the president or a vice-president and another principal officer.
    2.  Every  such association shall also make such other special reports
  to the superintendent as he may from time to time require, in such  form
  and  at such date as may be prescribed by him and such reports shall, if
  required by him, be subscribed and affirmed as true under the  penalties
  of perjury.
    3.  If  any such association shall fail to make any report required by
  or pursuant to this section on or before  the  day  designated  for  the
  making  thereof,  or  shall  fail  to  include  therein  any information
  required by the superintendent to be included,  such  association  shall
  forfeit  to  the people of the state an amount as determined pursuant to
  section forty-four-a of this chapter for  every  day  that  such  report
  shall  be  delayed  or withheld, and for every day that it shall fail to
  report any such omitted information, unless the time therefor shall have
  been extended by the superintendent.


::: 405:annual_report_to_shareholders_delivery_and_publication.html
 
    &#167; 405. Annual report to shareholders; delivery and publication.  Every
  savings  and  loan association shall (1) prepare a complete statement of
  its financial condition, including a summary of income and expense since
  its last  previous  statement,  and  publish  the  same  annually,  such
  publication  to  be  made  in  the  form  and  manner  determined by the
  superintendent and in accordance with the requirements of this  section,
  (2)  mail  a  copy  of  such  financial statement to each shareholder or
  depositor on application therefor, and (3) make copies of such financial
  statement available to depositors, shareholders and other persons  in  a
  convenient  and  conspicuous  location  on  the  premises of each of its
  authorized places of business.


::: 406:charters_conformed_to_this_article_obligations_and_rights_unimpaired_saving_clause_applicability_to_stockform_savings_and_loan_associations.html
 
    &#167; 406.  Charters  conformed  to  this  article; obligations and rights
  unimpaired; saving clause; applicability to stock-form savings and  loan
  associations.  1.  Except  as provided by regulations promulgated by the
  superintendent of financial services pursuant to section  fourteen-e  of
  this  chapter, the powers, rights, duties, privileges and obligations of
  every savings  and  loan  association  shall  be  governed,  controlled,
  construed,  extended,  limited  and determined by the provisions of this
  chapter, and the articles of association, certificate of  incorporation,
  by-laws  or rules of every such association heretofore made or existing,
  are hereby modified, altered and amended to conform to the provisions of
  this chapter, and are declared void where such articles of  association,
  certificate of incorporation, by-laws or rules are inconsistent with the
  provisions  of this chapter; except that the obligations of any existing
  association, and the obligations to any such  association,  existing  on
  June  thirtieth,  nineteen hundred thirty-nine, shall not be in any wise
  impaired by the provisions of this act. No savings and loan  association
  shall  by reason of the provisions of this act be required to dispose of
  any loan or investment held by it on June  thirtieth,  nineteen  hundred
  thirty-nine.  For  the purposes of this section, articles of association
  and by-laws are not to be deemed obligations of the association and  may
  be  changed  as  prescribed in section four hundred two, anything in the
  articles of association or by-laws to the contrary notwithstanding.
    2. The provisions of this article shall apply  to  stock-form  savings
  and  loan  associations  except  that  the  superintendent  of financial
  services, consistent with the declaration of policy described in section
  fourteen-e of this chapter, shall be empowered to deem  inapplicable  to
  stock-form   savings  and  loan  associations,  sections  three  hundred
  seventy-five, three hundred seventy-six,  three  hundred  seventy-seven,
  three  hundred  seventy-eight,  three hundred eighty-five, three hundred
  eighty-six, three  hundred  eighty-seven,  three  hundred  eighty-eight,
  three   hundred   eighty-nine,   three  hundred  ninety,  three  hundred
  ninety-two, three  hundred  ninety-seven,  three  hundred  ninety-eight,
  three   hundred  ninety-eight-a,  three  hundred  ninety-eight-b,  three
  hundred ninety-eight-c, subdivisions one, two and three of section three
  hundred ninety-nine, four hundred, four hundred two, four  hundred  five
  and four hundred six of this chapter.


::: 407:exemptions.html
 
    &#167; 407.  Exemptions.  Savings  and  loan  associations  shall be deemed
  institutions for savings, and such associations and the property of such
  associations shall be exempt from taxation under  any  law  which  shall
  exempt  savings  banks  or  institutions for savings from taxation.  The
  shares held by members of any association and  the  dues  and  dividends
  credited  thereon shall be exempt from sale on execution and proceedings
  supplementary thereto to the amount of  six  hundred  dollars,  and  the
  members of any such association shall not be individually liable for the
  payment  of its debts. The shares of savings and loan associations shall
  not be subject to the stock transfer  tax  either  when  issued  by  the
  association or when transferred from one member to another.


::: 409:conversion_of_a_state_savings_and_loan_association_into_a_federal_savings_and_loan_association.html
 
    &#167; 409.  Conversion  of  a  state  savings  and loan association into a
  federal savings and loan association. Any savings and  loan  association
  may  convert  itself  into  a  federal  savings  and loan association. A
  meeting of the shareholders shall be held upon not less than  ten  days'
  written  notice  to each shareholder, either served personally or mailed
  to him at his last known address and containing a statement of the time,
  place and purpose of such meeting. Proof by affidavit of due service  of
  such notice shall be filed in the office of the association before or at
  the time of such meeting.
    At such meeting the shareholders may, by vote in person or by proxy of
  the  holders  of  (a)  at  least  sixty-six and two-thirds per centum in
  amount of the book value of all outstanding  shares,  or  (b)  at  least
  seventy-five  per  centum in amount of the book value of the outstanding
  shares represented at the meeting,  authorize  the  conversion  of  such
  savings   and   loan   association  into  a  federal  savings  and  loan
  association. A copy of the minutes of  such  meeting,  verified  by  the
  presiding officer and by the secretary of the meeting, shall be filed in
  the office of the superintendent within two days thereafter.
    Within  three  months  after the date of such meeting, the association
  shall take such action, in the manner prescribed or  authorized  by  the
  laws  of  the  United States as shall make it a federal savings and loan
  association and shall thereupon file in the office of the superintendent
  a copy of the charter or authorization issued to it.   Upon such  filing
  the  association  shall cease to be a corporation under the laws of this
  state, except that  its  corporate  existence  shall  continue  for  the
  purpose  of prosecuting or defending suits and of enabling it to wind up
  its affairs as a state savings and loan association and  to  dispose  of
  and  convey  its  property.  At  the  time  when such conversion becomes
  effective, all of the property of the state savings and loan association
  shall immediately by act of law and without any conveyance  or  transfer
  become  the property of the federal savings and loan association and the
  federal savings and loan association shall thereupon succeed to all  the
  rights,  obligations  and  relations  of  the  state  savings  and  loan
  association.


::: 40:revocation_of_authorization_certificate_or_license_or_suspension_of_activities_in_certain_cases.html
 
    &#167; 40. Revocation of authorization certificate or license or suspension
  of activities in certain cases. 1. If the superintendent shall find that
  (i)  any  of  the  reasons  for  taking  possession  of the business and
  property of a banking organization or of the business  and  property  in
  this  state  of  a foreign banking corporation enumerated in section six
  hundred six of this chapter, shall  exist  with  respect  to  a  private
  banker   to   which  the  superintendent  has  issued  an  authorization
  certificate or a foreign banking corporation to which the superintendent
  has issued a license or (ii) any fact or condition exists which would be
  grounds for denial of an application for such  a  license  issued  to  a
  foreign  banking  corporation,  as  defined  by  the  superintendent  of
  financial services by regulation,  he  may,  after  notice  and  hearing
  thereon,  revoke  such  license  or authorization certificate. Notice of
  such revocation, under the superintendent's hand and the  official  seal
  of the department, shall be executed in triplicate and one copy shall be
  transmitted to such private banker or foreign corporation, another shall
  be filed in the office of the department and the third shall be filed in
  the  office  of  the  clerk  of  the  county  in which the authorization
  certificate or license of such private banker or foreign corporation has
  been filed. The superintendent may, in his discretion, publish a copy of
  such notice, with such other facts as he may deem proper, in  the  state
  register.
    2.  If the superintendent finds that any of the grounds for revocation
  described in subdivision one of this section are present with respect to
  a foreign banking corporation licensed pursuant to this chapter  and  in
  addition  the  superintendent finds it necessary to protect the interest
  of depositors or the  public,  the  superintendent  may  issue,  without
  notice  and  hearing,  an  order  suspending  or  otherwise limiting the
  activities of the foreign banking  corporation,  for  a  period  not  to
  exceed ninety days, pending investigation or hearing.


::: 410:conversion_of_a_federal_savings_and_loan_association_into_a_state_savings_and_loan_association.html
 
    &#167; 410.  Conversion  of  a  federal savings and loan association into a
  state savings and loan association. 1.  Any  federal  savings  and  loan
  association  having  its  place  of  business  in this state may convert
  itself into a state savings and  loan  association.  A  meeting  of  the
  shareholders  shall  be held upon not less than ten days' written notice
  to each shareholder, either served personally or mailed to  him  at  his
  last  known  address  and  containing a statement of the time, place and
  purpose of such meeting. Proof by  affidavit  of  due  service  of  such
  notice  shall be filed in the office of the association before or at the
  time of such meeting.
    2. At such meeting the shareholders may, by  vote,  in  person  or  by
  proxy,  of  the  holders  of  (a)  at least sixty-six and two-thirds per
  centum in amount of the book value of all outstanding shares, or (b)  at
  least  seventy-five  per  centum  in  amount  of  the  book value of the
  outstanding shares represented at the meeting, authorize the  conversion
  of  such  federal  savings and loan association into a state savings and
  loan association. A copy of the minutes of such meeting, verified by the
  presiding officer and by the secretary of the meeting, shall be filed in
  the office of the superintendent within thirty days after  the  date  of
  such meeting.
    3.   There  shall  be  filed  with  such  copy  of  the  minutes,  the
  organization certificate required by section three hundred  seventy-five
  of  this  article, executed by a majority of the directors, and proposed
  by-laws as  required  by  section  three  hundred  seventy-six  of  this
  article.  The  federal  savings and loan association shall also submit a
  written plan of conversion  to  the  superintendent,  together  with  an
  investigation  fee  as  described pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter.
    4. Within sixty days after such filing, the federal savings  and  loan
  association  shall  take the action prescribed or authorized by the laws
  of the United States to effect such conversion and there shall thereupon
  be filed in the office of the superintendent a copy of  any  consent  or
  authorization  required  of  such  federal  savings and loan association
  pursuant to the laws of the United States to effect such conversion.
    5. When  the  superintendent  shall  have  approved  the  organization
  certificate   and  the  proposed  by-laws  and  shall  have  issued  the
  authorization certificate, provided in article two of this chapter,  the
  association shall cease to be a federal savings and loan association and
  shall  thereupon be converted into a state savings and loan association,
  but such federal savings and loan association  shall  be  deemed  to  be
  continued  for  the  purpose  of  prosecuting  or defending suits and of
  enabling it to wind up  its  affairs  as  a  federal  savings  and  loan
  association, and to dispose of and convey its property.
    At the time when such conversion becomes effective all the property of
  the federal savings and loan association shall immediately by act of law
  and  without any conveyance or transfer become the property of the state
  savings and loan association and the state savings and loan  association
  shall  succeed  to  all  the  rights,  obligations  and relations of the
  federal savings and loan association.
    6. In the  case  of  a  conversion  of  a  federal  savings  and  loan
  association,  at  the  time  such  conversion becomes effective all life
  insurance plans, deferred payment plans, option  plans,  pension  plans,
  and  any  similar plans, as well as retirement benefits, death benefits,
  disability benefits, and any similar benefit programs, for  the  benefit
  of  officers and employees of such federal savings and loan associations
  which plans and programs are authorized under the  laws  of  the  United
  States,   shall   be   deemed   to   qualify   under  the  banking  law,
  notwithstanding any provision  of  the  banking  law  to  the  contrary;
  provided,  however,  that  to  the extent any such plan or program is in
  violation of any such provision of  the  banking  law  with  respect  to
  savings  and  loan associations, such plan or program shall be deemed to
  qualify  under  the  banking law only with respect to those officers and
  employees who at the time when such conversion becomes effective (i) are
  or have been officers or employees of the converting federal savings and
  loan association, and (ii) have acquired a right  or  interest  in  such
  plan  or  program  which  has  vested  in  such officers or employees by
  contractual arrangement in effect not less than six months prior to such
  conversion or by reason of such officers or employees becoming  eligible
  and  qualified under such plan or program. Notwithstanding the foregoing
  provisions of this subdivision,  the  superintendent  is  authorized  to
  withhold  his  approval  of the conversion of a federal savings and loan
  association if in his opinion the benefits under such plans or  programs
  are unduly excessive.


::: 411:conversion_of_a_savings_and_loan_association_or_federal_savings_and_loan_association_into_a_savings_bank.html
 
    &#167; 411. Conversion of a savings and loan association or federal savings
  and  loan  association  into  a  savings  bank.  1. Any savings and loan
  association or federal savings and loan association having its place  of
  business  in  this  state  may  convert  itself into a savings bank upon
  receiving the approval of its shareholders  and  the  superintendent  as
  hereinafter  provided.  A meeting of the shareholders shall be held upon
  not less than twenty days' written notice to  each  shareholder,  either
  served  personally  or  mailed  to  him  at  his  last known address and
  containing a statement of the time, place and purpose  of  such  meeting
  and  the  effect of the proposed conversion upon the shareholders' right
  to vote on matters affecting the management  of  the  resulting  savings
  bank. Proof by affidavit of due service of such notice shall be filed in
  the office of the association before or at the time of such meeting.
    2.  At  such  meeting  the  shareholders may, by vote, in person or by
  proxy, of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds per centum in
  amount of the book value of all outstanding shares  represented  at  the
  meeting,  authorize  the conversion of such savings and loan association
  or federal savings and loan association into a savings bank  subject  to
  the  approval  of the superintendent as hereinafter provided.  A copy of
  the minutes of such meeting, verified by the presiding  officer  and  by
  the  secretary  of  the  meeting,  shall  be  filed in the office of the
  superintendent within thirty  days  after  the  date  of  such  meeting,
  together  with  a  statement  setting forth the reasons why the board of
  directors believe the conversion would be in the best interests  of  the
  savings and loan association or federal savings and loan association and
  the  public,  and  such  other  information  as  the  superintendent may
  require. If the superintendent determines that the  proposed  conversion
  would  be  in  the best interests of the savings and loan association or
  federal savings and loan association and the public, he shall so  advise
  the  board  of  directors of the savings and loan association or federal
  savings and loan association and deliver to them his written approval of
  the proposed conversion.
    3.  Upon  receiving  the  superintendent's  written  approval  of  the
  proposed  conversion,  there shall be filed with the superintendent, the
  organization certificate required by section two hundred thirty of  this
  chapter,  executed  by a majority of the directors, and proposed by-laws
  as required by section two hundred fifty-one of this chapter.
    4. Within sixty days after such filing, or such additional time as the
  superintendent may authorize in writing,  a  federal  savings  and  loan
  association  proposing  to  convert  to  a savings bank pursuant to this
  section shall take the action prescribed or authorized by  the  laws  of
  the United States to effect such conversion and there shall thereupon be
  filed  in  the  office  of  the  superintendent a copy of any consent or
  authorization required of such  federal  savings  and  loan  association
  pursuant to the laws of the United States to effect such conversion.
    5.  When  the  superintendent  shall  have  approved  the organization
  certificate  and  the  proposed  by-laws  and  shall  have  issued   the
  authorization  certificate, provided in article two of this chapter, the
  association shall cease to be a savings and loan association or  federal
  savings and loan association, as the case may be, and shall thereupon be
  converted  into a savings bank, but such savings and loan association or
  federal savings and loan association shall be deemed to be continued for
  the purpose of prosecuting or defending suits and of enabling it to wind
  up its affairs as a savings and loan association or federal savings  and
  loan association, and to dispose of and convey its property.
    At the time when such conversion becomes effective all the property of
  the   savings   and   loan  association  or  federal  savings  and  loan
  association, as the case may be, shall immediately by  act  of  law  and
  without  any  conveyance  or transfer become the property of the savings
  bank and the savings bank shall succeed  to  all  the  offices,  rights,
  obligations  and  relations  of  such  savings  and  loan association or
  federal savings and loan association.
    6.  In  the  case  of  a  conversion  of  a  federal  savings and loan
  association, at the time such  conversion  becomes  effective  all  life
  insurance  plans,  deferred payments plans, option plans, pension plans,
  and any similar plans, as well as retirement benefits,  death  benefits,
  disability  benefits,  and any similar benefit programs, for the benefit
  of officers and employees of such federal savings and loan  associations
  which  plans  and  programs  are authorized under the laws of the United
  States, shall be deemed to qualify under the banking law notwithstanding
  any provision of the banking law to  the  contrary;  provided,  however,
  that, to the extent any such plan or program is in violation of any such
  provision of the banking law with respect to savings banks, such plan or
  program  shall  be  deemed  to  qualify  under the banking law only with
  respect to those officers and employees  who,  at  the  time  when  such
  conversion becomes effective, (i) are or have been officers or employees
  of  the  converting  federal savings and loan association, and (ii) have
  acquired a right or interest in such plan or program which has vested in
  such officers or employees by contractual arrangement in effect not less
  than six months prior to such conversion or by reason of  such  officers
  or employees becoming eligible and qualified under such plan or program.
  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  subdivision,  the
  superintendent is authorized to withhold his approval of the  conversion
  of a federal savings and loan association if in his opinion the benefits
  under such plans or programs are unduly excessive.


::: 412:conversion_of_federal_savings_institutions_to_state_charter.html
 
    &#167;  412.  Conversion  of federal savings institutions to state charter.
  The superintendent is authorized to promulgate such regulations  as  are
  necessary to permit the conversion of any federal savings association or
  federal  savings  and  loan  association  to  state  charter  where such
  conversion is not otherwise governed by the provisions of this  chapter.
  Subject   to  the  foregoing,  such  regulations  may  provide  for  the
  conversion of a federal savings association or federal savings and  loan
  association,  whether  in  mutual  or stock form, into a state-chartered
  savings bank  or  state-chartered  savings  and  loan  association.  The
  federal savings association shall submit a written plan of conversion to
  the  superintendent,  together  with  an investigation fee as prescribed
  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.


::: 413:reciprocal_interstate_acquisitions.html
 
    &#167; 413.  Reciprocal interstate acquisitions. 1. With the prior approval
  of the superintendent, a New York savings and loan holding company or  a
  subsidiary thereof or a New York savings association may acquire control
  of  an  out-of-state savings and loan holding company or an out-of-state
  savings association,  and  an  out-of-state  savings  and  loan  holding
  company  or  a subsidiary thereof or an out-of-state savings association
  may acquire control of a New York savings and loan holding company or  a
  New York savings association subject to regulations to be adopted by the
  superintendent   of   financial   services.  The  terms  and  conditions
  prescribed by such regulations shall be substantially similar  to  those
  contained  in  section one hundred forty-two-b of this chapter governing
  reciprocal interstate acquisitions by bank holding companies.
    2. For the purposes of this section:
    (a) the term "savings association" shall have the same meaning  as  in
  section  10  of  an  Act  of  Congress  entitled Home Owners Loan Act as
  amended from time to time;
    (b) the term "savings and loan holding company" shall  have  the  same
  meaning as in section 10 of an Act of Congress entitled Home Owners Loan
  Act as amended from time to time;
    (c)  the  term  "New  York  savings  association" shall mean a savings
  association whose principal office is located in this state and the term
  "out-of-state savings association"  shall  mean  a  savings  association
  whose  principal  office  is located in a state other than this state or
  the District of Columbia; and
    (d) the term "New York savings and loan holding company" shall mean  a
  savings  and  loan  holding  company which controls one or more New York
  savings associations and the term "out-of-state savings and loan holding
  company" shall mean a savings and loan holding company other than a  New
  York  savings  and  loan  holding  company  which conducts its principal
  banking business in a state other than this state  or  the  District  of
  Columbia.  The  jurisdiction  in  which an out-of-state savings and loan
  holding company conducts its principal banking business is that state or
  the District of Columbia in which the total deposits of such company and
  its banking subsidiaries are largest.


::: 41:removal_of_director_trustee_or_officer.html
 
    &#167; 41.  Removal  of  director,  trustee  or  officer.  1.  Whenever the
  superintendent shall find that any director, trustee or officer  of  any
  corporate  banking  organization  or  bank holding company (as such term
  "bank holding company" is defined in article three-A of this chapter) or
  any person or persons in charge of, or any officer of,  a  branch  of  a
  foreign  banking  corporation  has  violated  any  law  or  duly enacted
  regulation of the superintendent of financial services relating to  such
  corporation,  or  has  continued  unauthorized  or  unsafe  practices in
  conducting the business of such corporation after having been ordered or
  warned  by  the  superintendent  to  discontinue  such  practices,   the
  superintendent  may,  in his discretion, certify the facts to the board.
  The board shall cause notice to be served upon such  director,  trustee,
  officer  or  person  in  charge of, or officer of, a branch of a foreign
  banking corporation either personally or, upon a finding that he  cannot
  be  served  personally  within  the  state,  by  registered mail, at his
  address last known to the superintendent, to appear before such board to
  show cause why he should not be removed from  office.  A  copy  of  such
  notice  shall  be sent by registered mail to each director or trustee of
  the banking organization and to  each  person  in  charge  of  and  each
  officer  of  a  branch  of the foreign banking corporation affected. If,
  after granting the accused  director,  trustee,  officer  or  person  in
  charge  of,  or  officer of, a branch of a foreign banking corporation a
  reasonable opportunity to be heard, the board by a three-fifths vote  of
  all  its  members  finds  that  he  has violated any law or duly enacted
  regulation of the board relating to such corporation, or  has  continued
  unauthorized  or  unsafe  practices  in  conducting the business of such
  corporation after having been ordered or warned by the superintendent to
  discontinue  such  practices,  the  board,  in  its  discretion,  by   a
  three-fifths  vote  of  all  its  members, may order that such director,
  trustee, officer or person in charge of, or officer of, a  branch  of  a
  foreign banking corporation be removed from office.
    2. Upon service either personally or by registered mail at his address
  last known to the superintendent upon such director, trustee, officer or
  person  in  charge  of,  or  officer  of,  a branch of a foreign banking
  corporation and upon the corporation of which he is a director, trustee,
  officer or, in case he is a person in charge of, or officer of, a branch
  of a foreign banking corporation upon such foreign banking  corporation,
  of  a  copy  of  such order, he shall cease to be a director, trustee or
  officer of such banking organization or person in charge of, or  officer
  of,  a  branch  of  a  foreign  banking  corporation. Such order and the
  findings of fact upon which it is based shall  not  be  made  public  or
  disclosed to anyone except the director, trustee or officer or person in
  charge  of,  or  officer  of,  a branch of a foreign banking corporation
  involved and the directors or  trustees  of  the  corporation  involved,
  except  in  connection with proceedings for a violation of this section.
  Any director, trustee or officer or any person or persons in charge  of,
  or  any officer of, a branch of a foreign banking corporation so removed
  from office who thereafter without permission of the board  participates
  in  any  manner  in  the management of such banking organization or of a
  branch of  such  foreign  banking  corporation  shall  be  guilty  of  a
  misdemeanor.


::: 420-a:state_savings_and_loan_insurance_fund.html
 
    &#167; 420-a.  State  savings  and  loan insurance fund. 1. There is hereby
  created the "state savings and loan insurance fund". The fund shall be a
  corporate governmental agency constituting a public benefit corporation.
  It shall have the powers and privileges of a corporation, and under  its
  corporate  name  all  of  its  business  shall  be transacted, all funds
  invested, all warrants for money drawn and payments made, and  all  cash
  and securities and other personal property shall be held.
    2.  The fund shall be administered by six trustees, four of whom shall
  be appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the  senate,
  one  shall be elected by the insured members and one shall be elected by
  the board of directors of the Savings and Loan Bank of the State of  New
  York  from their own number. The trustees of the fund first appointed by
  the governor shall serve  for  terms  ending  December  thirty-first  in
  nineteen  hundred  sixty-eight,  nineteen  hundred  sixty-nine, nineteen
  hundred seventy and nineteen hundred seventy-one, respectively.  Persons
  appointed  for full terms as their successors shall serve for four years
  each commencing as of January first next following the year in which the
  term of his predecessor expired. The  trustee  elected  by  the  insured
  members shall serve for a term ending on December thirty-first, nineteen
  hundred  sixty-nine and the trustee elected by the board of directors of
  the savings and loan bank of the state of New York  shall  serve  for  a
  term  ending  on  December  thirty-first,  nineteen hundred seventy-one.
  Persons elected for full terms as their successors shall serve for  four
  years  each  commencing  as  of January first next following the year in
  which the term of his predecessor expired. In the  event  of  a  vacancy
  occurring in the office of an appointed trustee by death, resignation or
  otherwise,  the governor shall appoint a successor in the same manner as
  an original appointment to serve for the balance of the unexpired  term.
  If, for the previously stated reasons, a vacancy occurs in the office of
  an  elected trustee, said vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term
  by special election.
    3. The trustees of the fund  shall  serve  without  salary,  but  each
  trustee  shall be entitled to reimbursement for his actual and necessary
  expenses incurred in the performance of his official duties and to a fee
  of one hundred dollars per day when rendering service  as  such  member,
  provided  that  the  aggregate  amount  of  such fees payable to any one
  trustee in any one fiscal year shall not exceed the sum of five thousand
  dollars.
    4. The trustees of the fund may engage in private employment, or in  a
  profession or business, subject to the limitations contained in sections
  seventy-three  and  seventy-four  of  the  public officers law. The fund
  shall, for the purposes of such sections, be a "state agency",  and  the
  trustees  thereof  shall be "officers" of the agency for the purposes of
  said sections.
    5.  Notwithstanding  any  inconsistent  provisions  of  law,  general,
  special  or  local, no officer or employee of the state, or of any civil
  division thereof, shall be deemed to have forfeited or shall forfeit his
  office or employment by reason of his acceptance  of  appointment  as  a
  trustee,  officer  or  agent  of  the  fund;  provided,  however, that a
  trustee, officer  or  agent  who  holds  such  other  public  office  or
  employment  shall  receive  no additional compensation, fee or allowance
  for services rendered pursuant to this article, but shall be entitled to
  reimbursement for his actual and  necessary  expenses  incurred  in  the
  performance of such services.
    6.  The  governor  may remove any trustee for inefficiency, neglect of
  duty or misconduct in office after giving him  a  copy  of  the  charges
  against  him and an opportunity to be heard, in person or by counsel, in
  his defense, upon not less than ten days notice. If any trustee shall be
  removed, the governor shall file with the secretary of state a  complete
  statement of charges made against the trustee, and his findings thereon,
  together with a complete record of the proceedings.
    7.  The  chairman  of the board of trustees shall be designated by the
  governor. He shall preside over all meetings of the trustees  and  shall
  have  such  other duties as the trustees may direct. A vice-chairman who
  shall preside over all meetings of  the  fund  in  the  absence  of  the
  chairman and who shall have such other duties as the trustees may direct
  may be designated from time to time by the trustees from among the other
  trustees.
    8.  The powers of the fund shall be vested in and exercised by no less
  than four of the trustees then in office. The fund may delegate  to  one
  or  more  of its trustees, or officers, agents or employees, such powers
  and duties as the trustees may deem proper, provided, however, that  all
  contracts involving an estimated expense of ten thousand dollars or more
  shall  be  approved  prior to execution by no less than four trustees of
  the fund.
    9. The fund shall be subject to an examination by  the  superintendent
  of financial services at least once in each calendar year.
    10. Within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after
  each meeting of the trustees of the fund, the secretary or other officer
  of  the fund in charge of the minutes of the proceedings of the trustees
  shall transmit to the superintendent of financial services at his office
  in Albany three certified copies of the minutes of every meeting of  the
  trustees for his information.
    11.  The  fund  shall become operative when the total aggregate of the
  savings deposits of its members amount to five hundred  million  dollars
  or  more and shall continue so long as it shall have bonds, insurance or
  other  obligations  outstanding  and  until  its  existence   shall   be
  terminated  by  law.  Upon the termination of the existence of the fund,
  all its rights and properties shall pass to and be vested in the state.
    12. Before becoming operative the fund shall  adopt,  and  obtain  the
  approval  of  the  superintendent,  of  by-laws  for  its  organization,
  management and operations. Any amendment of the  by-laws  shall  require
  the prior approval of the superintendent.


::: 420-b:purposes_of_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 420-b.  Purposes  of  the  fund.  The  fund shall insure the savings
  accounts of savings and loan  associations  eligible  for  insurance  as
  hereinafter provided.


::: 420-c:general_powers_of_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 420-c.  General  powers  of the fund. Except as otherwise limited by
  this article, the fund shall have power:
    1. To sue and be sued;
    2. To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
    3. To  borrow  money  and  issue  negotiable  notes,  bonds  or  other
  obligations and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof;
    4. To invest any funds held in reserve or sinking funds, or any monies
  not required for immediate use or disbursement, at the discretion of the
  fund,  in  obligations  of  the state or the United States government or
  obligations the principal and interest of which are  guaranteed  by  the
  state or the United States government;
    5.  Subject  to  the  approval  of  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services, to establish rules and regulations governing the  exercise  of
  its powers and the fulfillment of its purposes under this article;
    6.  To  enter into contracts and leases and to execute all instruments
  necessary or convenient;
    7. To acquire, hold and dispose of real or personal  property  in  the
  exercise of its powers;
    8.  To  appoint  such officers and employees as it may require for the
  performance  of  its  duties,   and   to   fix   and   determine   their
  qualifications,  duties,  and  compensation  and  to  retain  or  employ
  auditors, engineers and private  consultants  on  a  contract  basis  or
  otherwise  for  rendering professional or technical services and advice,
  and with the approval of the attorney general of the state of New  York,
  to retain or employ counsel;
    9.  To  conduct  investigations and hearings in the furtherance of its
  general purposes, and in aid thereof have access to any  books,  records
  or  papers  relevant thereto; and if any person whose testimony shall be
  required for the proper performance of the duties of the fund shall fail
  or refuse to aid or assist the fund in the conduct of any  investigation
  or  hearing,  or to produce any relevant books, records or other papers,
  the fund is authorized to apply for process of subpoena, to issue out of
  any court of general original jurisdiction whose process can reach  such
  person, upon due cause shown;
    10.  In  the performance of the fund's duties, to utilize the services
  of employees of the department of financial  services,  reimbursing  the
  department of financial services for such services and expenses therein;
    11.  To  do all things necessary, convenient or desirable to carry out
  its purposes and for the exercise of the powers granted in this article.


::: 420-d:capital_stock_advance_premiums_other_fiscal_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 420-d. Capital stock; advance premiums; other fiscal provisions.  1.
  The fund shall have a capital stock of one hundred million dollars which
  shall  be  divided  into shares of one hundred dollars each. Each member
  savings and loan association  whose  accounts  are  insured  under  this
  article shall subscribe and pay for such stock in an amount equal to one
  percentum  of  its savings accounts at the time of admission to the fund
  and shall make annual adjustments to maintain such ratio.
    2. Each savings and loan association at the time it becomes  a  member
  of  the fund shall pay an advance premium to the fund in an amount equal
  to one percentum of the savings and loan association's savings accounts,
  said premium to be  maintained  at  a  one  per  cent  level  by  annual
  adjustments  thereof  until such time as the reserves of the fund are in
  excess of two and one-half percentum of the  aggregate  of  the  savings
  accounts  of  its members, whereupon such excess shall be applied at the
  end of the fiscal year on a pro-rata  basis  to  the  reduction  of  the
  advance premiums or to the payment of current premiums at the discretion
  of the trustees.


::: 420-e:exemption_from_taxation.html
 
    &#167; 420-e.  Exemption  from taxation. It is hereby found, determined and
  declared that the creation of the fund  and  the  carrying  out  of  its
  purposes  is  in all respects for the benefit of the people of the state
  of New York and  for  the  improvement  of  their  health,  welfare  and
  prosperity and is a public purpose, and that the fund will be performing
  an  essential  governmental  function  in  the  exercise  of  the powers
  conferred upon it by this article, and that the fund shall  be  required
  to  pay no fees, taxes or assessments, whether state or local, including
  but not limited to fees, taxes or assessments on real estate,  franchise
  taxes,  sales  taxes  or  other  excise taxes, upon its activities as an
  insurer; and that all income received by the fund and that the bonds  of
  the  fund  and  the  income  therefrom shall at all times be exempt from
  taxation, except for gift and estate taxes and taxes on transfers.  This
  section  shall  constitute  a covenant and agreement with the holders of
  all bonds issued by the fund.


::: 420-f:use_of_fund_name_prohibited_penalties_for_violation.html
 
    &#167; 420-f.  Use  of  fund  name prohibited; penalties for violation.  No
  individual, association, partnership, or corporation shall use the words
  "state savings and loan insurance fund", or any combination  of  any  of
  these words which would have the effect of leading the public in general
  to believe there was any connection, actually not existing, between such
  individual,  association,  partnership,  or corporation and the fund, as
  the name under  which  he  or  it  shall  hereafter  do  business.    No
  individual,  association, partnership, or corporation shall advertise or
  otherwise represent falsely by any device whatsoever  that  his  or  its
  accounts  are  insured  or  in anywise guaranteed by the fund, or by the
  state, or by any instrumentality thereof; and no  insured  member  shall
  advertise  or  otherwise  represent falsely by any device whatsoever the
  extent to which or the manner in which its accounts are insured  by  the
  fund.   Every   individual,  partnership,  association,  or  corporation
  violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by  a
  fine  of  not  exceeding  one  thousand  dollars, or by imprisonment not
  exceeding one year, or both.


::: 420-g:insurance_of_accounts_and_eligibility_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 420-g.  Insurance  of  accounts  and eligibility provisions. 1.   It
  shall be the duty of the fund  to  insure  the  accounts  of  all  state
  savings and loan associations that apply and qualify therefor.  Approval
  of  the  application shall constitute the savings and loan association a
  member of the fund.
    2. Applications shall be in such form as the fund shall prescribe, and
  shall contain an agreement (a)  to  pay  the  reasonable  cost  of  such
  examinations  as  the  fund shall deem necessary in connection with such
  insurance, and (b) if the insurance is granted, to permit  and  pay  the
  cost  of  such examinations as in the judgment of the fund may from time
  to time be necessary for its protection and  the  protection  of  member
  savings  and loan associations, to permit the fund to have access to any
  information or report with respect to any examination made by any public
  regulatory authority and to  furnish  any  additional  information  with
  respect  thereto as the fund may require, and to pay the premium charges
  for insurance as hereinafter provided.
    3. The fund shall reject the application of any applicant if it  finds
  that  the  applicant  has  assets  insufficient to pay its debts and the
  amount due its members upon  savings  accounts  or  that  its  financial
  policies  or  management  are unsafe or unsound; and the fund may reject
  the application of any applicant if it finds that the character  of  the
  management of the applicant or its home financing policy is inconsistent
  with  economical  home  financing  or with the purposes of this article.
  Upon the approval of any application for insurance the fund shall notify
  the applicant, and upon the required purchase of the  capital  stock  of
  the  fund  and  upon  the payment of the initial premium charge for such
  insurance and required advance premiums the  fund  shall  issue  to  the
  applicant   a   certificate  stating  that  it  has  become  an  insured
  institution. In considering applications for  such  insurance  the  fund
  shall  give  full  consideration  to  all factors in connection with the
  financial condition of applicants and insured  institutions,  and  shall
  have  power to require such adjustments in their financial statements as
  the fund finds to be necessary.
    4. Any savings and loan association which applies after January first,
  nineteen hundred sixty-seven for insurance under this article shall pay,
  in the event its application is  approved,  an  admission  fee  in  such
  amount  as the fund shall determine, taking into consideration the total
  cost of processing all insurance applications.


::: 420-h:premiums_on_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 420-h.  Premiums  on insurance. 1. Each savings and loan association
  whose application for insurance  is  approved  by  the  fund  shall  pay
  required  advance  premiums to the fund, as well as a premium charge for
  such insurance equal to one-twelfth of  one  per  centum  of  the  total
  amount  of  all  savings  accounts of such institution plus any creditor
  obligations of such institution. Such premiums shall be paid at the time
  the certificate is  issued  by  the  fund  under  section  four  hundred
  twenty-g  of this article, and thereafter annually until the reserves of
  the fund equal two and one-half per centum of all  savings  accounts  of
  all  members;  except that under regulations prescribed by the fund such
  premium charge may be paid semiannually. If at any  time  such  reserves
  fall  below such two and one-half per centum, the payment of such annual
  premium charge for insurance shall be resumed  and  shall  be  continued
  until the reserves are brought back to such two and one-half per centum.
  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision, the amount in all accounts of
  insured  members  and  the  amount  of  creditor  obligations   of   any
  institution  may  be determined from adjusted statements made within one
  year prior to the approval of the application of such savings  and  loan
  association  for  insurance,  or in such other manner as the fund may by
  rules and regulations prescribe.
    2. The fund is further  authorized  to  assess  against  each  insured
  savings and loan association additional premiums for insurance until the
  amount  of such premiums equals the amount of all losses and expenses of
  the fund; except that the total amount  so  assessed  in  any  one  year
  against   any  such  savings  and  loan  association  shall  not  exceed
  one-eighth of one per centum of the total amount of its savings accounts
  and its creditor obligations.


::: 420-i:payment_of_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 420-i.  Payment  of  insurance. 1. Each savings and loan association
  whose application for insurance under this article is  approved  by  the
  fund  shall  be entitled to insurance up to the full withdrawal value of
  the accounts of each of its members and investors or in such  amount  as
  shall be established by the board of trustees, but in no event shall the
  maximum amount of insurance for any savings account be less than fifteen
  thousand dollars.
    2.  In  the  event  of  a  default  by  any  insured  savings and loan
  association, payment of each insured account in such insured association
  shall be made by the fund as soon as possible either (1) by cash or  (2)
  by  making  available  to  each  savings  account  a transferred savings
  account in a new insured  savings  and  loan  association  in  the  same
  community  or  in  another  insured  savings  and loan association in an
  amount equal to the insured savings account; provided however, that  the
  fund,  in its discretion, may require proof of claims to be filed before
  paying the insured accounts, and that in any case where the fund is  not
  satisfied  as  to the validity of a claim for an insured account, it may
  require the final determination of a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction
  before paying such claim.


::: 420-j:liquidation_of_insured_savings_and_loan_associations.html
 
    &#167; 420-j.  Liquidation of insured savings and loan associations.  1. In
  the event that a savings and loan association is in  default,  the  fund
  may be appointed by the superintendent as conservator or receiver and as
  such,  may  be  authorized  by  the  superintendent (a) to take over the
  assets of and operate such association, (b) to take such action  as  may
  be  necessary  to  put  it  in  a  sound  and  solvent condition, (c) to
  negotiate  for  a  merger  with  another  insured   savings   and   loan
  association, (d) to negotiate the organization of a new savings and loan
  association  to take over its assets, or (e) to proceed to liquidate its
  assets  in  an  orderly  manner,   whichever   shall   appear   to   the
  superintendent  to be in the public interest. The payment by the fund of
  an insured account in any such association which  is  in  default  shall
  entitle  the  fund  to the rights of the holder of such insured account,
  but shall not affect any right which the holder of such account may have
  in the uninsured portion of his account or any right which he  may  have
  to  participate  in  the distribution of the net proceeds remaining from
  the disposition of the assets of such association.
    2. In order to prevent a  default  in  an  insured  savings  and  loan
  association  or  in  order  to  restore an insured association to normal
  operation as an insured  savings  and  loan  association,  the  fund  is
  authorized, in its discretion, to make loans to, purchase the assets of,
  or make a contribution to, an insured savings and loan association or an
  insured  savings  and  loan  association in default; but no contribution
  shall be made to any such association in an amount  in  excess  of  that
  which  the  fund finds to be reasonably necessary to save the expense of
  liquidating such association.


::: 420-k:termination_of_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 420-k.  Termination  of insurance. 1. Whenever in the opinion of the
  fund any insured savings and loan association has  continued  unsafe  or
  unsound  practices  in  conducting the business of such savings and loan
  association, or has  knowingly  or  negligently  permitted  any  of  its
  officers  or agents to violate any provision of any law or regulation to
  which the insured savings and loan association  is  subject,  said  fund
  shall  first give to the superintendent a statement with respect to such
  practices or violations for  the  purpose  of  securing  the  correction
  thereof  and  shall  give  a  copy  thereof  to  the  savings  and  loan
  association. Unless such correction shall be made within one hundred and
  twenty days or such shorter period of time as the  superintendent  shall
  require,  the fund, if it shall determine to proceed further, shall give
  to the savings and loan association not less than thirty  days'  written
  notice  of  intention  to  terminate  the status of the savings and loan
  association as an insured savings and loan association, and shall fix  a
  time  and  place for a hearing before the fund or a person designated by
  the fund. The fund shall make written findings. Unless the  savings  and
  loan  association  shall  appear  at  the  hearing  by a duly authorized
  representative, it shall be deemed to have consented to the  termination
  of  its  status  as an insured savings and loan association. If the fund
  shall find that any unsafe or unsound practice or violation specified in
  such notice has been established and has not been corrected  within  the
  time  above  prescribed  in  which to make such correction, the fund may
  issue its order  terminating  the  insured  status  of  the  association
  effective  on a date subsequent to such finding and to the expiration of
  the time specified in such notice  of  intention.  The  order  shall  be
  subject  to review under article seventy-eight of the civil practice law
  and rules. In the event of the termination of such status, insurance  of
  its  accounts  to  the extent that they were insured on the date of such
  order  of  termination,   less   any   amounts   thereafter   withdrawn,
  repurchased, or redeemed which reduce the insured accounts of an insured
  member  below  the  amount  insured  on  the  date  of such order, shall
  continue for a period of two years, but no investments or deposits  made
  after  the  date of such order of termination shall be insured. The fund
  shall have the right to examine  such  association  from  time  to  time
  during  the  two-year  period aforesaid.   Such insured savings and loan
  association shall be obligated to pay, within thirty days after any such
  order of termination, as a final insurance premium, a sum equivalent  to
  twice  the  last  annual  insurance  premium  paid  by  it  pursuant  to
  subdivision one of section four hundred twenty-h of this chapter. In the
  event of the termination of insurance of accounts as herein provided the
  savings and loan association which was  the  insured  savings  and  loan
  association  shall give prompt notice in writing sent to all its account
  holders that it has ceased to be an insured savings and loan association
  and it may include in such notice the fact that insured accounts, to the
  extent not withdrawn, repurchased, or redeemed, remain insured  for  two
  years  from  the  date  of  such  termination,  but it shall not further
  represent itself in any manner as an insured association.  In the  event
  of  failure to give the notice to account holders as herein provided the
  fund is authorized to give such notice.
    2. (a) At any time after five years of membership, but not before,  an
  insured   savings  and  loan  association  may  submit  to  the  fund  a
  certificate  of  intention  to   terminate   its   membership   therein.
  Termination  shall  become effective on the first day of the sixth month
  following the submission of the certificate provided that:
    (i) The member pay a termination fee  equivalent  to  twice  the  last
  annual  premium  paid  by it pursuant to subdivision one of section four
  hundred twenty-h of this chapter; this fee shall not extend  or  enlarge
  insurance coverage.
    (ii)  The insured savings and loan association sends to each holder of
  a savings account a notice in writing not later than  two  months  after
  submission  of the certificate; the notice shall be in a form prescribed
  by the fund and shall set forth the facts of the termination.
    (b) The fund may elect to  refund  to  the  association  its  original
  capital  contribution  to  the  fund  subject to terms it may prescribe,
  provided that such refund is made within two  years  of  termination  of
  membership.


::: 420-l:savings_and_loan_bank_eligible_as_fiscal_agent.html
 
    &#167; 420-l.  Savings and loan bank eligible as fiscal agent.  The savings
  and loan bank operating pursuant to article ten-B of the banking law may
  be designated by the fund as its fiscal agent; such bank shall have  the
  power  to  accept such designation and to do all acts necessary in order
  to carry out the duties thereby imposed in accordance with any agreement
  entered into pursuant thereto.


::: 420:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 420.  Definitions.  When  used  in  this  article unless the context
  otherwise requires:
    1. "Default" means an adjudication or other official determination  of
  a  court of competent jurisdiction or other public authority pursuant to
  which a conservator, receiver, or other legal custodian is appointed for
  an insured institution for the purpose of liquidation.
    2. "Fund" means the state savings and loan insurance fund  created  by
  section four hundred twenty-a of this article.
    3. "Insured account" means a savings account held by an insured member
  and which is insured under the provisions of this article.
    4.  "Insured  savings and loan association" means an association whose
  accounts are insured under this article.
    5. "Member" or "insured member" means a savings and  loan  association
  whose  application  for  membership  in  the  fund has been accepted and
  approved; and which has made all payments required by this article;  and
  whose membership has not been terminated.
    6.  "Reserves" means the aggregate total of capital, advance premiums,
  assessments and retained earnings of the fund.


::: 42:official_acts_of_superintendent_and_details_of_department_business_to_be_made_public.html
 
    &#167; 42.  Official  acts  of  superintendent  and  details  of department
  business to be made public. The superintendent shall  publish  and  make
  available  to  the  general  public at the offices of the department and
  also post on the department's internet website a  bulletin  at  noon  on
  Friday  of  each week stating the following items of general information
  with regard to the work of the department since the preceding statement:
    1. The name and the location of the principal office of every proposed
  corporation, private banker, licensed  lender  and  licensed  casher  of
  checks,  the  organization  certificate, private banker's certificate or
  application for license of which has been filed for examination, and the
  date of such filing.
    2. The name and location of every licensed lender and licensed  casher
  of  checks, and the name, location, amount of capital stock or permanent
  capital and amount of surplus of every corporation  and  private  banker
  and  the  minimum  assets  required of every branch of a foreign banking
  corporation  authorized  to  commence  business,   and   the   date   of
  authorization or licensing.
    3. The name of every proposed corporation, private banker, branch of a
  foreign  banking  corporation,  licensed  lender  and licensed casher of
  checks to which a certificate of authorization or  a  license  has  been
  refused and the date of notice of refusal.
    4.  The  name  and  location of every private banker, licensed lender,
  licensed casher of checks, sales finance company and foreign corporation
  the authorization certificate or license of which has been revoked,  and
  the date of such revocation.
    5.  The  name of every banking organization, licensed lender, licensed
  casher of checks and foreign corporation which has applied for leave  to
  change  its  place  or one of its places of business and the places from
  and to which the change is proposed  to  be  made;  the  name  of  every
  banking  organization which has applied to change the designation of its
  principal office to a branch office and to change the designation of one
  of its branch offices to its principal office, and the location  of  the
  principal office which is proposed to be redesignated as a branch office
  and  of  the  branch  office which is proposed to be redesignated as the
  principal office.
    6. The name of every banking organization, licensed  lender,  licensed
  casher  of checks and foreign corporation authorized to change its place
  or one of its places of business and the date when and the  places  from
  and  to  which  the  change  is authorized to be made; the name of every
  banking  organization  authorized  to  change  the  designation  of  its
  principal  office  to a branch office and to change the designation of a
  branch office to its principal office, the location of the  redesignated
  principal  office and of the redesignated branch office, and the date of
  such change.
    7. The name of every banking organization and of every foreign banking
  corporation which has applied for permission to open a branch office  or
  a  public  accommodation  office,  the  date of such application and the
  location of the proposed branch or public accommodation office.
    8. The name of every banking organization and of every foreign banking
  corporation authorized to open a branch office or a public accommodation
  office, the date of approval and the location of such office.
    9. The name and location of every banking organization  authorized  to
  increase  or  reduce its capital stock or permanent capital, the date of
  such authorization and the amount of the increase or reduction.
    10. The names and locations of all banking  organizations  which  have
  merged  pursuant  to  the  provisions of this chapter and the dates upon
  which such mergers became effective.
    11. The name and city or town of  residence  of  every  person,  whose
  compensation   is  to  be  paid  upon  the  audit  and  warrant  of  the
  comptroller, who has been appointed deputy and of every person  who  has
  been  appointed  to  a  position  in  the exempt class of the classified
  service  as  such  terms  are  defined  in the civil service law, in the
  department, and the title of the position to which he or  she  has  been
  appointed  and  the  date  of appointment. Such other information as the
  superintendent deems appropriate.
    12. The date on which a call pursuant to section thirty-seven of  this
  chapter  for  a periodical report of condition by banks, trust companies
  and private bankers was issued and the day designated as the day  as  of
  which such reports should be made.
    13.  The name and location of every banking organization and branch of
  a foreign banking corporation of  which  the  superintendent  has  taken
  possession   for   the  purpose  of  liquidation,  the  date  of  taking
  possession,  and  the  name  and  residence  of   any   special   deputy
  superintendent appointed to assist in the liquidation thereof.
    14.  The  name and location of every banking organization of which the
  superintendent has surrendered possession pursuant to the provisions  of
  section six hundred seven of this chapter.
    15.  The name and location of every corporate banking organization the
  creditors and depositors  of  which  have  been  paid  in  full  by  the
  superintendent  and  a meeting of stockholders of which has been called,
  and the date of notice of meeting and date of meeting.
    16. The name and location of every corporate banking organization  the
  affairs and business of which have been finally liquidated and which has
  been dissolved.
    17.  The  name and location of every private banker the liquidation of
  the affairs of which has been completed by the superintendent.
    18. The name and location  of  every  corporate  banking  organization
  which  has  applied  for  approval  of  a  change  of name, and the name
  proposed.
    * 19. a. The name of every state  chartered  banking  institution,  as
  defined  pursuant to section twelve-a of this article, which has applied
  to exercise a federally permitted power pursuant to subdivision three of
  section twelve-a of this article, a description of such  power  and  the
  date of such filing.
    b.  The  intention of the superintendent to issue an order pursuant to
  subdivision four of  section  twelve-a  of  this  article,  which  shall
  include  a  description  of the proposed federally permitted power and a
  reference to the state-chartered banking  institutions  which  shall  be
  permitted to exercise such power.
    * NB Repealed September 10, 2019
    Every such statement after having been so posted for one week shall be
  placed  on  file  and  kept  in  the  office of the department. All such
  statements shall be public documents and at all reasonable  times  shall
  be open to public inspection.


::: 432:incorporation_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 432. Incorporation; organization certificate. When authorized by the
  superintendent  as  provided in article two of this chapter, ten or more
  savings and loan associations, the aggregate resources  of  which  shall
  not  be  less  than  five million dollars, may form the Savings and Loan
  Bank of the State  of  New  York.    Each  of  such  associations  shall
  subscribe, acknowledge and submit to the superintendent at his office an
  organization certificate in duplicate which shall specifically state:
    1. The name, "Savings and Loan Bank of the State of New York."
    2.  The  place  in  the  state of New York where its business is to be
  transacted.
    3. The number of shares for  which  each  association  has  subscribed
  which  shall  amount  in  the  aggregate  to  not  less than one hundred
  thousand dollars.
    4. The number of directors of such savings and loan bank, which  shall
  not  be  less  than  seven  nor  more than fifteen, and the names of the
  persons who shall be its directors until the first annual meeting.   The
  certificate  shall  recite that the directors possess the qualifications
  specified in section four hundred forty-one of this article.
    5. The name and location of the principal office of each  savings  and
  loan association subscribing the certificate and the aggregate resources
  of each such association.


::: 433:proposed_bylaws.html
 
    &#167; 433.   Proposed  by-laws.  The  incorporators  shall  subscribe  and
  acknowledge and submit to the  superintendent  at  his  office  proposed
  by-laws  in  duplicate,  which  shall  prescribe the manner in which the
  business of such savings and loan bank shall be conducted with reference
  to the following matters: 1. The date during the month of January of the
  annual meeting of shareholders; the manner of calling special  meetings,
  and the number of members which shall constitute a quorum.
    2.  The  number,  manner  of election and qualifications of directors,
  subject to the provisions of section  four  hundred  forty-one  of  this
  article;  the  method  of  division  into  classes  for  the  purpose of
  electing, as nearly as may be, an equal number of directors  each  year;
  the  removal or suspension of directors; the filling of vacancies in the
  board of directors, and the number of directors which shall constitute a
  quorum, which shall not be less than five.
    3. The meetings, powers and duties of directors;  the  appointment  or
  election of committees.
    4.  The officers; the manner of their election; their terms of office,
  duties and compensation; and  the  bonds  which  shall  be  required  of
  officers.
    5.  The  annual commission that may be charged each member, subject to
  the limitations of section four hundred forty of this article.
    6. The minimum amount of shares necessary to qualify for membership.
    7. The minimum amount of shares necessary to qualify for extension  of
  credit.
    8.  The  manner  of voting, subject to the limitations of section four
  hundred forty-four of this article.
    9. The transfer of membership, subject to the limitations  of  section
  four hundred thirty-nine of this article.
    10. The manner in which the by-laws may be altered or amended.


::: 434:when_corporate_existence_begins_conditions_precedent_to_commencing_business.html
 
    &#167; 434.  When  corporate  existence  begins;  conditions  precedent  to
  commencing business. When the superintendent  shall  have  endorsed  his
  approval  on  the organization certificate as provided in article two of
  this chapter, the corporate existence of the Savings and  Loan  Bank  of
  the  State of New York shall begin and it shall then have power to elect
  officers  and  transact  such  other  business   as   relates   to   its
  organization;  but  such  savings  and loan bank shall transact no other
  business until: 1.  Subscriptions to its shares aggregating one  hundred
  thousand  dollars  shall have been paid in cash and an affidavit stating
  that such subscriptions have been so paid, subscribed and  sworn  to  by
  its  two principal officers, shall have been filed in the clerk's office
  of the county of New York, and a certified copy thereof in the office of
  the superintendent.
    2. The superintendent shall have duly issued to it  the  authorization
  certificate specified in article two of this chapter.


::: 435:general_powers.html
 
    &#167; 435. General powers. The savings and loan bank shall, subject to the
  restrictions  and limitations contained in this article and its by-laws,
  have the following powers: 1. To issue, sell and redeem bonds and  notes
  secured  by bonds and first mortgages made to or held by its members and
  to issue, sell and redeem debenture bonds and notes.
    2. To receive money or  property  from  its  members  and  from  other
  associations,  corporations  and  persons  with  whom  it has contracts,
  engagements or undertakings, in instalments or otherwise; to enter  into
  any   contract,   engagement  or  undertaking  with  such  associations,
  corporations or persons for the withdrawal of such  money  or  property,
  with  any  increase  thereof,  or  for  the  payment  to  them or to any
  association, corporation or person of any sum of  money,  at  any  time,
  either  fixed  or  uncertain;  to  lend  money  to  its members upon the
  security of their promissory notes with or without collateral.
    3. To invest its capital and other funds in investments in  which  its
  member  savings  and  loan  associations  are authorized to invest under
  article ten of this chapter; and in securities in which investments  are
  authorized to be made by savings banks.
    4.  To  receive by assignment from its members and to deposit in trust
  with the comptroller of the state of New York  to  be  held  by  him  as
  security  for  its and their outstanding obligations any first mortgages
  on real estate and the bonds secured thereby that are legally receivable
  by its members; to empower such members as agents  of  the  savings  and
  loan  bank,  to collect and immediately pay over to the savings and loan
  bank the  dues,  interest  and  other  sums  payable  under  the  terms,
  conditions  and  covenants  of  the  bonds  and mortgages or, prior to a
  default upon any such bond and mortgage so assigned  and  when  adequate
  security has been given to the savings and loan bank by any such member,
  to  retain such collections until a payment to the savings and loan bank
  from such member becomes due; to return to, or  permit  such  member  to
  retain  any  sums of money so collected in excess of the amount required
  to meet the obligations of such member.
    5. To purchase in its own name, hold and convey real property for  the
  following  purposes and no others: (a) A plot whereon there is or may be
  erected a building  suitable  for  the  convenient  transaction  of  its
  business  from  portions of which not required for its own use a revenue
  may be derived.
    (b) Such as shall be mortgaged to it in good faith, by way of security
  for loans made by it or moneys due to it.
    (c) Such as shall be conveyed to it for debts previously contracted in
  the course of its business, and such as it shall purchase at sales under
  judgments, decrees or mortgages held by it.
    6. To designate as depositaries of its funds any bank, trust  company,
  or savings bank, or any national bank located in this state.
    7.  To  sue and to be sued in all courts and to participate in actions
  and proceedings, whether judicial, arbitrative  or  otherwise,  in  like
  cases as natural persons.
    8. To have a corporate seal, and to alter such seal at pleasure and to
  use  it  by  causing  it  or  a  facsimile to be affixed or impressed or
  reproduced in any other manner.
    9. To elect or appoint officers, employees and  other  agents  of  the
  savings  and loan bank, define their duties, fix their compensation, and
  to indemnify corporate personnel.
    10. To have perpetual existence.
    11. To have and exercise all other powers necessary or appropriate  in
  conducting business of the savings and loan bank.


::: 436:restrictions_on_powers.html
 
    &#167; 436. Restrictions on powers. The savings and loan bank shall not: 1.
  Do a general deposit business except with its members.
    2.  Invest  more than twenty-five per centum of its surplus account in
  real estate occupied, or to be occupied, by it as a place  of  business,
  without the written approval of the superintendent.
    3.  Incur  any indebtedness, except for the purpose of making loans to
  its members or purchasing from its members  those  investments  made  by
  them under article ten of this chapter, upon any bonds or notes, secured
  or  unsecured,  with a maturity exceeding three years or in an aggregate
  amount exceeding five times its capital.
    4. Incur any indebtedness upon bonds or notes, secured  or  unsecured,
  for  the purpose of making loans to its members unless the amount of any
  such bonds or notes which are secured shall not be in excess  of  eighty
  per  centum  of the value of the collateral security pledged therefor to
  such savings and loan bank; and  any  such  bonds  or  notes  which  are
  unsecured shall not have a maturity in excess of three years.
    5. Purchase from its members mortgage loans which were originated less
  than  five  years prior to date of such purchase, nor incur indebtedness
  for  the  purchase  from  its  members  of  mortgage  loans  which  were
  originated  five years or more prior to the date of such purchase by the
  issuance of bonds or  notes,  secured  or  unsecured,  with  a  maturity
  exceeding five years.


::: 437:redemption_of_bonds_and_notes_procedure_in_event_of_default.html
 
    &#167; 437.  Redemption  of bonds and notes; procedure in event of default.
  1.  All bonds and notes issued by the  savings  and  loan  bank  may  be
  called  on  any  interest day at one hundred two and one-half per centum
  and interest by giving notice of not less than sixty days in a newspaper
  published in the city of New York or on such notice, in such manner  and
  at  such  time  and price, not to exceed one hundred five per centum and
  interest, as may be specified in such bonds or notes.
    2. In the event of any default  for  more  than  ninety  days  in  the
  payment of the principal of, or for more than ninety days in the payment
  of  any  instalment  of  interest  upon,  any bond or note issued by the
  savings and loan bank, the superintendent may, in  his  discretion,  and
  shall, upon the request in writing of the holders of said obligations in
  default  to  the  amount  of  fifty  thousand  dollars,  forthwith  take
  possession of and proceed to liquidate the savings and loan  bank.  Upon
  such  liquidation  he  shall  be entitled in the name of the savings and
  loan bank to enforce all of its rights and securities and to collect and
  realize upon all of its assets, including all mortgages assigned to  the
  savings  and  loan  bank  by its several members, and deposited with the
  comptroller of the state of New York, up to the amounts advanced by  the
  savings  and  loan  bank  to  the several members thereon. Upon any such
  liquidation all said  obligations  then  issued  and  outstanding  shall
  forthwith  become  due  and  payable  equally and ratably out of all the
  assets of the savings and loan  bank  in  advance  of  any  other  debts
  thereof not specifically preferred by law.


::: 438:surplus_account.html
 
    &#167; 438.  Surplus account. 1. The savings and loan bank shall accumulate
  from its profits a surplus account by carrying thereto  annually  a  sum
  equal  to  one-half of one per centum of its capital, until such surplus
  account shall be equal to at least fifteen per centum of its capital.
    2. The guaranty fund on June thirtieth, nineteen  hundred  thirty-nine
  shall  be  transferred  to  the surplus account and shall constitute the
  surplus account at that date.


::: 439:membership_liability_transfer_of_shares.html
 
    &#167; 439. Membership; liability; transfer of shares. 1. Membership in the
  savings and loan bank shall be limited to savings and loan associations,
  except,  that  the  directors of the savings and loan bank may, in their
  discretion, permit federal savings and loan associations located in this
  state to be or become members of the savings and loan bank. Every member
  shall pay one hundred dollars for each  share  of  the  capital  of  the
  savings and loan bank issued to it.
    2.  Members  of  the  savings  and loan bank shall not be individually
  liable for the payment of its debts.
    3. Shares shall not be transferable, except that a  member,  which  is
  not  liable  to  the savings and loan bank for any direct obligation may
  transfer its shares therein to another savings and loan association,  by
  and  with  the consent of the board of directors of the savings and loan
  bank; or it may retire from membership and receive back such sums as  it
  has paid for its shares, upon giving one year's notice in writing to the
  savings  and  loan  bank  of  such intention, provided, however, that no
  withdrawal shall be permitted by the board  of  directors,  which  shall
  reduce  the  total  amount  of  the capital of the savings and loan bank
  below five hundred thousand dollars. The  board  of  directors  may,  in
  their  discretion, waive such notice, in the event of the liquidation of
  any member, and pay back such sums as it has paid for  its  shares  even
  though  such  payment should result in a reduction of capital below five
  hundred thousand dollars. Any member liable to the savings and loan bank
  for any direct obligation which holds shares in  excess  of  the  number
  required  by the by-laws of the savings and loan bank, may transfer such
  excess shares to another savings and loan association, by and  with  the
  consent  of  the  board of directors of the savings and loan bank; or it
  may, by and with the consent of the board of directors  of  the  savings
  and  loan bank, withdraw such excess shares and receive back such sum as
  it has paid for such excess shares, upon giving  one  year's  notice  in
  writing  to  the  savings  and  loan  bank  of such intention, provided,
  however, that no withdrawal of shares shall be permitted by the board of
  directors, which shall reduce the total amount of  the  capital  of  the
  savings and loan bank below five hundred thousand dollars.


::: 44-a:violations_and_penalties_failure_to_make_reports.html
 
    &#167;  44-a.  Violations  and  penalties;  failure  to  make  reports.  1.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary:
    a. any person or  entity  licensed,  registered,  or  incorporated  or
  otherwise  formed  pursuant  to  this  chapter, or an out-of-state state
  bank, that inadvertently or  unintentionally:  (i)  fails  to  make  any
  report  required  by  the superintendent pursuant to this chapter, on or
  before the day designated for the making thereof; (ii) fails to  include
  within  such  report  any  prescribed  matter; or (iii) submits false or
  misleading information therein, shall, after notice and hearing, forfeit
  to the people of the state not more than two thousand dollars  for  each
  day during which such report or omitted matter is delayed or withheld or
  such  false  or misleading information is not corrected, unless the time
  therefor shall have been extended by the superintendent, for good  cause
  shown, in his or her sole discretion;
    b.  notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph a of this subdivision
  any person or entity licensed, registered, or incorporated or  otherwise
  formed  pursuant  to  this  chapter, or an out-of-state state bank, that
  demonstrates by any pattern of behavior or other action that any of  its
  failures  as  described  in  paragraph  a  of  this subdivision were not
  inadvertent or unintentional shall, after notice and hearing, forfeit to
  the people of the state not more than twenty thousand dollars  for  each
  day during which such failures continue;
    c.  notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  a  or  b  of this
  subdivision, any person or entity licensed, registered, or  incorporated
  or  otherwise formed pursuant to this chapter that demonstrates that any
  of its  failures  as  described  in  paragraph  a  of  this  subdivision
  constitutes  a  pattern  of behavior or other action performed knowingly
  and with reckless disregard shall, after notice and hearing, forfeit  to
  the people of the state not more than two hundred fifty thousand dollars
  or  in  the  case of a banking organization, foreign bank licensee or an
  out-of-state state bank,  the  lesser  of  two  hundred  fifty  thousand
  dollars  or one percent of the total assets of such banking organization
  or one percent of the total assets in this state of  such  foreign  bank
  licensee, as applicable for each day that its failures continue.
    With  respect  to any amount assessed pursuant to this section against
  any person or entity licensed or registered pursuant  to  this  chapter,
  but not with respect to a banking organization, foreign bank licensee or
  out-of-state  state bank, the superintendent in determining such amount,
  shall take into consideration the net worth and annual  business  volume
  of such licensed or registered person or entity.
    2.   In   assessing   any   penalty  pursuant  to  this  section,  the
  superintendent shall take  into  account,  without  limitation,  factors
  including:
    a.  the  extent, if any, to which senior management or board directors
  or trustees participated therein,
    b.  the  extent  to  which  the  entity  has   cooperated   with   the
  superintendent in the investigation of such conduct,
    c. any sanction imposed by any other regulatory agency,
    d. the financial resources and good faith of the entity,
    e. the gravity of the violation,
    f. any history of prior violations, and
    g. such other matters as justice and the public interest may require.
    3.  Whenever  the  superintendent  shall  require  the payment of such
  penalty by any such  entity,  he  or  she  shall  forthwith  execute  in
  duplicate  a  written  order  to  that effect. On the date such order is
  executed, the superintendent shall file one copy of such  order  in  the
  office  of  the  department  and  serve the second copy upon such entity
  either personally or by registered or  certified  mail,  return  receipt
  requested,  directed  to the entity's principal place of business or, in
  the case of a licensee or registrant, its last known address of  record.
  Such   order   may  be  reviewed  in  the  manner  provided  by  article
  seventy-eight  of  the  civil  practice  law  and  rules.  Such  special
  proceeding for review as authorized by this section  must  be  commenced
  within thirty days from the service of such order.
    4.  The  superintendent  may  compromise, modify, or remit any penalty
  which he or she may assess or had already assessed under this section.
    5. The superintendent may  prescribe  regulations  to  carry  out  the
  provisions and purposes of this section.


::: 440:commissions_and_payment_of_expenses.html
 
    &#167; 440.  Commissions and payment of expenses. The savings and loan bank
  may charge each member an annual commission, not to exceed  one-half  of
  one  per  centum,  upon  the  outstanding  bonds and notes issued in its
  behalf, provided, however, that the rate of commission in any year shall
  be the same on  all  outstanding  obligations  in  respect  to  which  a
  commission  is  charged;  or  in  lieu  of charging such commissions the
  expenses incurred on account of any such obligations may be  charged  to
  the member on whose behalf such obligations are issued.


::: 441:qualifications_and_disqualification_of_directors_oath_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 441.  Qualifications  and  disqualification  of  directors;  oath of
  directors. 1. At least three-fourths of the directors of the savings and
  loan bank must reside in the state of New  York  during  their  term  of
  office,  and  all must be citizens of the United States. No person shall
  be elected a director unless he is the owner in good faith  and  in  his
  own  right  on  the  books  of  a member savings and loan association of
  shares having a book value of not less than two hundred dollars and  has
  been  nominated  by  such  member  savings and loan association for that
  office; and every person elected  to  be  a  director  who,  after  such
  election,  shall hypothecate, pledge or cease to be the owner in his own
  right of such qualifying shares shall cease to  be  a  director  of  the
  savings and loan bank, and his office shall be vacant.
    2.  Each  director, when appointed or elected, shall take an oath that
  he will, so far as the duty devolves upon him, diligently  and  honestly
  administer  the  affairs  of  the  savings  and  loan bank, and will not
  knowingly violate, or willingly  permit  to  be  violated,  any  of  the
  provisions  of  law  applicable  to  such corporation and that he is the
  owner in good faith and in his own right on the books of the savings and
  loan association which nominated him of shares having a book  value  not
  less than two hundred dollars, and that the same is not hypothecated, or
  in  any  way  pledged  as  security for any loan or debt and, in case of
  re-election that such shares were not hypothecated or in any way pledged
  as security for any loan or debt during his  previous  term.  Such  oath
  shall  be subscribed by the directors making it, certified by an officer
  authorized by law to administer oaths, and  immediately  transmitted  to
  the superintendent.


::: 442:number_of_directors_filling_of_vacancies_change_of_number.html
 
    &#167; 442. Number of directors; filling of vacancies; change of number. 1.
  The  number  of directors of the savings and loan bank shall be not less
  than seven nor more than fifteen.
    2. All vacancies in the office of director shall be filled by election
  by the members  except  as  provided  in  this  section.  Vacancies  not
  exceeding  one-third  of  the whole number of the board may be filled by
  the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office,  and
  the directors so elected may hold office until such vacancies are filled
  by  the  members  at a special or annual election; or when the number of
  directors is nine or more, two vacancies may, with the  consent  of  the
  superintendent, be left unfilled until the next annual election.
    3.  The  number of directors may be changed within the limits provided
  in subdivision one of this section by amendment of the by-laws.


::: 443:amendment_of_bylaws.html
 
    &#167; 443.  Amendment  of  by-laws. The by-laws may be altered or amended,
  from time to time, provided such alterations or  amendments  shall  have
  first  received  the  written  approval  of the superintendent and shall
  thereafter have been duly adopted at a meeting of the directors.
    A copy of any such alteration or  amendment  shall  be  filed  in  the
  office of the superintendent within thirty days after such adoption.


::: 444:annual_meeting_notice_voting.html
 
    &#167; 444.  Annual  meeting;  notice;  voting.  The  annual meeting of the
  shareholders for the election of directors shall be held in  January  in
  each  year  at a place within the state to be determined by the board of
  directors. Notice of the time and place of holding such  election  shall
  be  given  by  publication  thereof,  at least once in each week for two
  successive weeks immediately preceding such  election,  in  a  newspaper
  published  in  the city of New York and by mailing a copy of such notice
  postage prepaid to each shareholder of the savings  and  loan  bank  not
  less  than  ten  nor  more  than  forty  days before the holding of such
  meeting. Each member  shall  be  entitled  to  one  vote,  and  to  such
  additional  votes  not exceeding one vote for every share of the capital
  standing in its name on the books of the savings and loan  bank  as  the
  by-laws  may  prescribe.  Such vote or votes may be cast by mail when so
  provided in the by-laws.


::: 445:preference_of_credits.html
 
    &#167; 445.  Preference  of credits. In case of the insolvency or voluntary
  or involuntary liquidation of any bank, trust  company  or  savings  and
  loan association, its assets shall be applied in the first place ratably
  and  proportionately  to the payment in full of any sum or sums of money
  deposited therewith by the savings and loan bank or due to  the  savings
  and  loan  bank for subscriptions, sinking funds, interest and principal
  of bonds, or guaranty of mortgages, notes secured or  unsecured  or  any
  other obligations due to the savings and loan bank, but not to an amount
  exceeding  that  authorized  to  be  so  deposited  or contracted by the
  provisions of this chapter, and in accordance and on  an  equality  with
  any other preference provided for in this chapter.


::: 446:exemptions.html
 
    &#167; 446.  Exemptions. The bonds and notes issued by the savings and loan
  bank and the savings and loan bank itself, together  with  its  capital,
  accumulations  and funds, shall have the same exemption from taxation as
  other institutions for savings. No law which taxes corporations  in  any
  form,  or  the  shares  thereof,  or the accumulations therein, shall be
  deemed to include the savings and loan bank or its issues  of  bonds  or
  notes unless they are specifically named in such law.


::: 447-a:required_approvals.html
 
    &#167; 447-a.  Required approvals. 1. Approval by the board of directors. A
  reorganization of a mutual savings and loan association pursuant to this
  article shall be approved by a majority of the board of directors of the
  mutual savings and loan association.
    2. (a) Approval by the  superintendent.  A  mutual  savings  and  loan
  association  proposing  a  reorganization pursuant to this article shall
  provide  the  superintendent  with  written  notice  of  such   proposed
  reorganization.  Such  notice  shall  include  a  copy  of  the  plan of
  reorganization  approved  by  the  board  of   directors   pursuant   to
  subdivision  one  of this section, the proposed organization certificate
  for  the  mutual  holding  company  and  the  stock  savings  and   loan
  association  subsidiary  and shall contain such other information as the
  superintendent  shall  require.  The  superintendent  shall  approve  or
  disapprove   the  plan  of  reorganization  within  sixty  days  of  the
  submission of such plan together with  such  other  information  as  the
  superintendent shall require.
    (b)  Factors considered. In determining whether to approve the plan of
  reorganization, the superintendent shall consider:
    (i) whether the formation of the mutual holding company would  not  be
  detrimental  to  the interests of the shareholders of the mutual savings
  and loan association proposing to reorganize as provided in section four
  hundred forty-seven of this article;
    (ii) whether disapproval is necessary to  prevent  unsafe  or  unsound
  banking practices;
    (iii)  whether  the  interest  of  the  public  will  be served by the
  proposed reorganization;
    (iv) whether the financial  or  management  resources  of  the  mutual
  savings  and  loan  association  proposing  to reorganize as provided in
  section four hundred forty-seven of this article warrant disapproval  of
  the  proposed plan of reorganization; (v) whether the mutual savings and
  loan association proposing to reorganize as  provided  in  section  four
  hundred  forty-seven  of  this  article fails to furnish any information
  required  under  paragraph  (a)  of  this   subdivision   or   furnished
  information  containing  any  statement  which,  at  the time and in the
  circumstances under which it was made,  was  false  or  misleading  with
  respect  to  any  material  fact  or  omits  to  state any material fact
  necessary to make the statements therein not false or misleading.
    (c) When the  superintendent  shall  have  determined  to  approve  or
  disapprove  the  plan  of  reorganization,  the  superintendent shall so
  advise the mutual savings and loan  association  in  writing  and  shall
  endorse approval on an organization certificate and cause it to be filed
  in  the office of the superintendent and with the clerk of the county in
  which the principal office of the mutual savings and loan association is
  located. Upon the filing of the organization certificate  the  existence
  of  the  mutual holding company shall commence. As used in this article,
  the  term  "organization   certificate"   shall   include   an   amended
  organization certificate.
    3.  Approval  by  shareholders.  If approved by the superintendent the
  mutual  savings  and  loan  association  shall  submit   the   plan   of
  reorganization to its shareholders for approval at a meeting convened in
  accordance with general regulations promulgated by the superintendent of
  financial  services  for  the  sole purpose of approving or disapproving
  such plan. At such meeting:
    (a) all shareholders whose aggregate share balance equals at least one
  hundred dollars as of a record date shall be  entitled  to  approve  the
  plan of reorganization, either in person or by valid proxy;
    (b)  each  shareholder  entitled to vote shall be entitled to cast one
  vote for each full one hundred dollars of  shares  of  such  shareholder
  shown  on  the  books  and  records  of  the  mutual  savings  and  loan
  association as of the record date;
    (c)  no  shareholder  shall be entitled to cast any vote for any share
  balance in amounts of less than one hundred dollars;
    (d) no plan of reorganization shall be effective  unless  approved  by
  the  affirmative  vote  of  at  least  seventy-five  per  centum  of the
  aggregate dollar amount of the book value of shares represented at  such
  meeting either in person or by valid proxy and entitled to vote thereat.


::: 447-b:formation_of_a_mutual_holding_company.html
 
    &#167; 447-b.  Formation  of  a  mutual  holding  company.  1.  The plan of
  reorganization may authorize the formation of a mutual  holding  company
  by:
    (a)  (i)  the  organization  by  the mutual holding company of a stock
  savings and loan association subsidiary and the transferal to such stock
  savings and loan association of the substantial part of its  assets  and
  liabilities,  including  all  of  its deposit liabilities, in accordance
  with general regulations promulgated by the superintendent of  financial
  services;
    (ii)  the organization by the mutual savings and loan association of a
  mutual holding company and  the  organization  by  such  mutual  holding
  company  of a stock savings and loan association subsidiary which merges
  with the mutual savings and loan association; or
    (iii) the reorganization of the mutual savings  and  loan  association
  under  any  other  method  approved  pursuant  to  general  or  specific
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent of financial services.
    (b) For the purposes  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  subdivision,  such
  regulations shall permit the stock savings and loan association to issue
  to  persons  other  than  the  mutual  holding  company of which it is a
  subsidiary an amount of common stock  and  securities  convertible  into
  common  stock  which  in  the  aggregate  does not exceed forty-nine per
  centum of the issued and outstanding common stock of such stock  savings
  and  loan  association,  provided that if a mutual holding company which
  owns all of the common stock  and  securities  convertible  into  common
  stock  of  its  savings  and  loan  association  subsidiary subsequently
  determines to make such an issuance it shall pay  a  fee  as  prescribed
  pursuant  to  section eighteen-a of this chapter. Issued and outstanding
  securities that are convertible into common stock  shall  be  considered
  issued  and  outstanding  common stock for the purposes of computing the
  forty-nine per centum limitation. This paragraph  shall  not  limit  the
  authority  of such stock savings and loan association to issue equity or
  debt securities other than common stock and securities convertible  into
  common stock.
    2.  In connection with the reorganization of a mutual savings and loan
  association as provided in section  four  hundred  forty-seven  of  this
  article,  the mutual holding company may retain or acquire assets of the
  mutual savings and loan association to the extent that such  assets  are
  not  then required to be transferred to or retained by the stock savings
  and loan association in order to satisfy capital or reserve requirements
  of any applicable state or federal law or regulation.
    3. A stock savings and loan association, at least fifty-one per centum
  but less than one hundred per centum of the outstanding common stock  of
  which  is  owned  by  a  mutual  holding company shall have at least one
  director, but  no  more  than  two-fifths  of  its  directors,  who  are
  "unaffiliated  directors"  who  shall  represent  the  interests  of the
  minority shareholders. An "unaffiliated director" is a director  who  is
  not (a) an officer or employee of the stock savings and loan association
  (or  any  affiliate  thereof)  or  (b)  an officer, trustee, director or
  employee of the mutual holding company. If the organization  certificate
  or  bylaws  of  the  stock savings and loan association provide that the
  board of directors shall be divided into two or more  classes,  then  to
  the  extent  possible,  each  class  shall  contain  the  same number of
  unaffiliated directors as each other class.


::: 447-c:mutual_holding_company_powers.html
 
    &#167; 447-c.  Mutual  holding  company  powers. 1. Upon the formation of a
  mutual holding company by a mutual savings and loan association:
    (a) the mutual holding company shall possess all  the  rights,  powers
  and  privileges,  except  deposit-taking powers, and shall be subject to
  all the limitations not inconsistent  with  this  article  of  a  mutual
  savings  and  loan  association  under  articles ten and sixteen of this
  chapter;
    (b) the mutual holding company shall be  subject  to  the  limitations
  imposed  by  the savings and loan holding company provisions of the Home
  Owners Loan Act (title twelve United States Code Section 1467a);
    (c)  notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph   (b)   of   this
  subdivision  no mutual holding company shall exercise any rights, powers
  or privileges pursuant to any provision of  federal  law  applicable  to
  savings  and  loan holding companies which are not also authorized under
  article ten of this chapter.
    2. Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of  section  fourteen-e,
  six  hundred, six hundred one, six hundred one-a or six hundred one-b of
  this  chapter,  subject  to  general  regulations  promulgated  by   the
  superintendent of financial services, a mutual holding company may:
    (a)  merge  with,  acquire  or purchase the assets of a mutual holding
  company established pursuant to this article or  the  savings  and  loan
  holding  company  provisions  of  the Home Owners Loan Act (title twelve
  United States Code Section 1467a);
    (b) acquire or purchase the assets or stock of a stock savings bank, a
  stock savings and loan association, a stock federal savings  bank  or  a
  stock federal savings and loan association;
    (c)  acquire  a  mutual  savings  bank,  a  mutual  savings  and  loan
  association, a federal mutual savings bank or a federal  mutual  savings
  and loan association through the merger of such institution with a stock
  subsidiary of such mutual holding company;
    (d)  engage  in  any  other  acquisition  or  combination specifically
  permitted  by  general  or  special  regulations  promulgated   by   the
  superintendent  of  financial  services;  provided,  however,  that  the
  superintendent of financial services shall have no power to  permit  any
  insurance  activities prohibited by subdivision three of this section or
  to expand by interpretation any provision of federal law  set  forth  in
  the  savings and loan holding company provisions of the Home Owners Loan
  Act (title twelve United States Code Section 1467a).
    3. Except to the extent permitted by  the  savings  and  loan  holding
  company  provisions  of  the  Home  Owners Loan Act (title twelve United
  States Code Section  1467a)  and  authorized  by  article  ten  of  this
  chapter,  the powers of the mutual holding company shall not include the
  power to directly or indirectly engage in: the sale or  underwriting  of
  insurance;  the  formation  or  acquisition of an insurance agency or an
  insurance company, or; the issue, sale,  distribution  and  underwriting
  of,  or  to deal in, any security arising out of a contract issued by an
  insurance company and subject to the supervision of  the  superintendent
  of financial services.


::: 447-d:conversion_of_mutual_holding_company_into_stock_holding_company.html
 
    &#167; 447-d.  Conversion  of  mutual  holding  company  into stock holding
  company. 1. If approved by the superintendent, a mutual holding  company
  may  convert  to  a  stock  holding  company  in accordance with general
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent of financial services.
    2. If approved by the superintendent, the mutual holding company shall
  submit the plan of conversion to its  shareholders  for  approval  at  a
  meeting  convened  for that purpose in accordance with such regulations.
  The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of subdivision  three
  of  section  four  hundred  forty-seven-a of this article shall apply to
  such  meeting.  For  the  purpose  of   this   subdivision,   the   term
  "shareholders"  shall  mean those shareholders as of a record date, of a
  stock savings and loan association  subsidiary  of  the  mutual  holding
  company which:
    (a)  was  organized  as  a  result  of  the reorganization of a mutual
  savings and  loan  association  as  provided  in  section  four  hundred
  forty-seven of this article; and
    (b)  has  not  at  any time subsequent to its organization issued more
  than forty-nine per centum of its issued and outstanding common stock to
  any persons other than a mutual holding company  organized  pursuant  to
  this  article  or the savings and loan holding company provisions of the
  Home Owners Loan Act (title twelve United States Code Section 1467a).


::: 447:authorization_of_the_formation_of_mutual_holding_companies.html
 
    &#167; 447.  Authorization of the formation of mutual holding companies. 1.
  Notwithstanding any other  provision  of  law  and  in  accordance  with
  general regulations which the superintendent of financial services shall
  promulgate to facilitate such reorganizations, a mutual savings and loan
  association  may reorganize so as to cause its deposit-taking and one or
  more other activities to be  conducted  by  a  stock  savings  and  loan
  association  subsidiary  of  a  mutual  holding  company formed for such
  purpose upon the payment of a fee  as  prescribed  pursuant  to  section
  eighteen-a of this chapter.
    2.  Except  to  the  extent that such provisions are inconsistent with
  this article, the stock savings and loan association subsidiary  of  the
  mutual  holding  company shall be subject to the same provisions of this
  chapter as apply to savings and loan associations which  have  converted
  to stock form pursuant to sections fourteen-e and nine thousand nineteen
  of this chapter.


::: 44:violations_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 44. Violations; penalties. 1. (a) Without limiting any power granted
  to  the  superintendent  under  any other provision of this chapter, the
  superintendent may, in a proceeding after notice and a hearing,  require
  any  safe  deposit  company, licensed lender, licensed casher of checks,
  licensed sales  finance  company,  licensed  insurance  premium  finance
  agency,   licensed  transmitter  of  money,  licensed  mortgage  banker,
  registered  mortgage  broker,   licensed   mortgage   loan   originator,
  registered  mortgage  loan servicer or licensed budget planner to pay to
  the people of this state a penalty for any violation  of  this  chapter,
  any  regulation  promulgated  thereunder,  any  final or temporary order
  issued pursuant to section thirty-nine of this  article,  any  condition
  imposed in writing by the superintendent in connection with the grant of
  any  application  or request, or any written agreement entered into with
  the superintendent.
    (b) The penalty for each violation prescribed in paragraph (a) of this
  subdivision shall not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars for  each
  day during which such violation continues.
    (c)   Notwithstanding  paragraph  (b)  of  this  subdivision,  if  the
  superintendent determines (i) that any such licensee, registrant or safe
  deposit company has committed a violation as described in paragraph  (a)
  of this subdivision, or has recklessly engaged in any unsafe and unsound
  practice  and  (ii) that such violation or practice is part of a pattern
  of misconduct, results or is likely to result in more than minimal  loss
  to  such  licensee,  registrant  or  safe deposit company, or results in
  pecuniary gain or other benefit to such  licensee,  registrant  or  safe
  deposit  company,  then  the  penalty  shall not exceed fifteen thousand
  dollars for each day during which such violation or practice continues.
    (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) or (c) of this subdivision, if  the
  superintendent determines (i) that any such licensee, registrant or safe
  deposit  company  has knowingly and willfully committed any violation as
  described in paragraph (a) of this subdivision,  or  has  knowingly  and
  willfully  engaged  in any unsafe and unsound practice, or (ii) that any
  licensee, registrant or safe deposit company has knowingly committed any
  violation  described  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this   subdivision   which
  substantially   undermines  public  confidence  in  any  such  licensee,
  registrant or safe deposit company or in such licensees, registrants  or
  safe  deposit  companies generally, and, in either case, (iii) that such
  licensee, registrant or safe deposit company has knowingly or recklessly
  incurred so substantial a loss as a result of such violation or practice
  as to threaten the safety and soundness of such licensee, registrant  or
  safe  deposit  company,  then  the penalty shall not exceed seventy-five
  thousand dollars for each day during which such violation continues.
    (e) The superintendent, in  determining  the  amount  of  any  penalty
  assessed pursuant to this subdivision, shall take into consideration the
  net  worth  and annual business volume of such licensees, registrants or
  safe deposit companies.
    2. (a) Without limiting any power granted to the superintendent  under
  any  other  provision  of  this  chapter,  the  superintendent may, in a
  proceeding after notice and hearing, require any  banking  organization,
  bank  holding company out-of-state state bank that maintains a branch or
  branches or representative or other offices in this  state,  or  foreign
  banking corporation licensed by the superintendent to maintain a branch,
  agency  or  representative  office in this state to pay to the people of
  this state a penalty for any violation of this chapter,  any  regulation
  promulgated  thereunder, any final or temporary order issued pursuant to
  section thirty-nine of this article, any condition imposed in writing by
  the superintendent in connection with the grant of  any  application  or
  request,  or any written agreement entered into with the superintendent.
  For purposes of this section, any reference to a "banking  organization"
  shall be deemed to exclude a safe deposit company and any reference to a
  "foreign bank licensee" shall be deemed to include an out-of-state state
  bank  that  maintains  a  branch  or branches or representative or other
  offices in this state and a  foreign  banking  corporation  licensed  to
  maintain a branch, agency or representative office in this state.
    (b) The penalty for each violation prescribed in paragraph (a) of this
  subdivision  shall  not exceed five thousand dollars for each day during
  which such violation continues.
    3. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of subdivision two of  this  section,
  if  the  superintendent  determines:  (a) that any banking organization,
  bank holding  company,  or  foreign  bank  licensee  has  committed  any
  violation described in subdivision two of this section or has recklessly
  engaged in any unsafe and unsound practice, and
    (b)  that  such  violation  or  practice  is  part  of  a  pattern  of
  misconduct, results or is likely to result in more than minimal loss  to
  the   banking  organization,  bank  holding  company,  or  foreign  bank
  licensee, or results in pecuniary gain or other benefit to  the  banking
  organization,  bank  holding company, or foreign bank licensee, then the
  penalty shall not exceed  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  for  each  day
  during which such violation or practice continues.
    4.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  (b) of subdivision two and subdivision
  three of this section, if the superintendent determines:  (a)  (i)  that
  any banking organization, bank holding company, or foreign bank licensee
  has  knowingly  and  willfully  committed  any  violation  described  in
  subdivision two of this section or has knowingly and  willfully  engaged
  in   any   unsafe  and  unsound  practice,  or  (ii)  that  any  banking
  organization,  bank  holding  company,  or  foreign  bank  licensee  has
  knowingly  committed  any violation described in subdivision two of this
  section which substantially undermines public  confidence  in  any  such
  banking  organization, bank holding company, or foreign bank licensee or
  in banking  organizations,  bank  holding  companies,  or  foreign  bank
  licensees   generally,  and,  in  either  case,  (b)  that  the  banking
  organization,  bank  holding  company,  or  foreign  bank  licensee  has
  knowingly  or  recklessly  incurred so substantial a loss as a result of
  such violation or practice as to threaten the safety  and  soundness  of
  such  banking  organization,  bank  holding  company,  or  foreign  bank
  licensee, then the penalty shall  not  exceed  the  lesser  of  (i)  two
  hundred  fifty  thousand dollars or (ii) one percent of the total assets
  of such banking organization, or one percent of the total assets of  the
  banking  subsidiaries,  as  such term is defined pursuant to section one
  hundred forty-one of this chapter, of such bank holding company, or  one
  percent of the total assets in this state of such foreign bank licensee,
  as  applicable,  for  each  day  during which such violation or practice
  continues.
    5. In assessing any penalty against any entity listed in paragraph (a)
  of subdivision one or paragraph (a) of subdivision two of this  section,
  the  superintendent shall take into account, without limitation, factors
  including: (a) the extent, if any, to which senior management  or  board
  directors  or trustees participated therein, (b) the extent to which the
  entity has cooperated with the superintendent in  the  investigation  of
  such  conduct,  (c) any sanction imposed by any other regulatory agency,
  (d) the financial resources and  good  faith  of  the  entity,  (e)  the
  gravity  of  the violation, (f) any history of prior violations, and (g)
  such other matters as justice and the public interest may require.
    6. Whenever the superintendent  shall  require  the  payment  of  such
  penalty  by  any  such entity, he shall forthwith execute in duplicate a
  written order to that effect. On the date such order  is  executed,  the
  superintendent  shall  file  one copy of such order in the office of the
  department and serve the second copy upon such entity either  personally
  or  by  registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, directed
  to  the  entity's  principal  place  of  business  or,  in the case of a
  licensee or registrant, its last known address of record. Such order may
  be reviewed in the manner provided by article seventy-eight of the civil
  practice law and rules. Such special proceeding for review as authorized
  by this section must be commenced within thirty days from the service of
  such order.
    7. The superintendent may compromise, modify,  or  remit  any  penalty
  which he or she may assess or had already assessed under this section.
    8.  The  superintendent  may  prescribe  regulations  to carry out the
  provisions and purposes of this section.
    9. As used in this section, "bank holding company" shall have the same
  meaning  as  that  term  is  defined  in  subdivision  six  of   section
  thirty-nine of this article.


::: 450-a:designation_of_low_income_credit_union.html
 
    &#167;  450-a.  Designation  of  low income credit union. 1. A credit union
  organized under this article may be designated as a  low  income  credit
  union as defined in subdivision five of this section.
    2.  A  credit  union,  including a credit union in formation, may make
  written application to the superintendent to  be  designated  as  a  low
  income   credit   union.   If   the  superintendent  shall  find,  after
  investigation, that such credit union meets  the  definition  of  a  low
  income  credit  union,  as  set  forth  in this section, he or she shall
  approve such designation.
    3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a  low  income
  credit  union  may  issue shares, share drafts and share certificates to
  nonmembers  who  or  which  may  be   natural   persons,   corporations,
  partnerships or other legal entities.
    4.  Except as provided in this section, all provisions of this chapter
  shall be applicable to low income credit unions.
    5. As used in this section, the term "low income credit  union"  shall
  mean  a  credit  union in which a majority of the members: (a) make less
  than eighty percent of the average for all wage earners  as  established
  by  the  bureau  of  labor statistics of the United States department of
  labor or have annual household incomes that  fall  at  or  below  eighty
  percent  of the median household income for the nation as established by
  the United States census bureau;  or  (b)  are  residents  of  a  public
  housing project who qualify for such residency because of low income; or
  (c)  qualify to receive benefits from any program designed to assist the
  economically disadvantaged. The superintendent of financial services may
  promulgate regulations appropriate to the formation and operation of low
  income credit unions.
    6. A credit union's designation as a low income credit  union  may  be
  removed   by   the  superintendent  if  he  or  she  shall  find,  after
  investigation, that such credit union no longer meets the definition  of
  a low income credit union as set forth in this section. Upon such a loss
  of  designation,  such  credit  union  shall  no longer be authorized to
  exercise the powers set forth in this section but shall  remain  subject
  to  all  of  the  other  provisions of this chapter applicable to credit
  unions generally.


::: 450-b:designation_of_student_branches.html
 
    &#167;  450-b.  Designation of student branches. 1. As used in this section
  the following terms shall have the following meanings:
    (a) "school" shall mean any public or private elementary or  secondary
  school;
    (b) "student" shall mean a child enrolled in a school;
    (c) "student branch" shall mean the designation provided to the credit
  union  pertaining  to  the  in-school  services  and financial education
  offered to students. A student branch  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  a
  station  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any of the provisions of this
  article applicable to stations; provided, however, that a  credit  union
  shall  provide written notice to the superintendent of the establishment
  of any such student branch.
    2. A credit union organized under this article may upon agreement with
  a school's governing body open and maintain a student branch.
    3. Notwithstanding any other provision of  this  article  any  student
  enrolled in the school maintaining a student branch who is not otherwise
  qualified  for  membership in the credit union is hereby qualified for a
  student membership. Said student membership  shall  expire  thirty  days
  after  the  student's  graduation  from  secondary  school,  transfer to
  another school or termination of enrollment. The student branch shall be
  for the express use of the students and may  not  be  used  by  faculty,
  staff  or  lineal ancestors or descendants of students. Neither faculty,
  staff nor  lineal  ancestors  or  descendants  of  student  members  are
  eligible  for  membership in the credit union unless otherwise qualified
  under this article.
    4. The superintendent may promulgate regulations  appropriate  to  the
  formation and operation of student branches.


::: 450:incorporation_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167;  450.  Incorporation; organization certificate.   When authorized by
  the superintendent as provided in article two of this chapter, seven  or
  more  persons  employed  or residing in the state of New York may form a
  corporation to be known as a credit union, which may include a corporate
  credit union or a credit union. The provisions  of  this  article  shall
  apply  to a corporate credit union or a credit union except as otherwise
  provided.  Such persons shall subscribe and acknowledge  and  submit  to
  the   superintendent  at  his  office  an  organization  certificate  in
  duplicate which shall specifically state:
    1. The name of the corporation which shall include the  words  "credit
  union."
    2.  The place where its business is to be transacted. If the condition
  of membership is employment  of  its  members  by  certain  individuals,
  partnerships  or  corporations,  the  place  of  business  of  any  such
  individual, partnership or corporation may be stated  as  the  place  of
  business of such credit union.
    3. The par value of the shares.
    4.  The  full  name,  residence and post office address of each of the
  incorporators.  These incorporators may serve  as  directors  until  the
  first  annual  meeting  of  shareholders.   The organization certificate
  shall also indicate which of the incorporators will serve  as  directors
  until such meeting.
    5. Its duration if other than perpetual.


::: 451:proposed_bylaws.html
 
    &#167;   451.  Proposed  bylaws.  The  incorporators  shall  subscribe  and
  acknowledge  and  submit  to  the  superintendent  proposed  bylaws,  in
  duplicate, which shall prescribe the manner in which the business of the
  credit union shall be conducted with reference to the following matters:
    1. The purposes of the corporation.
    2. The qualifications for membership.
    (a) Membership shall be limited to:
    (1) persons having a common employer;
    (2)  persons  and  organizations  who  are  members of the same trade,
  industry, profession, club, union, society or other association;
    (3) in the case of a credit union incorporated under this  chapter  as
  of  the effective date of this subdivision, and with the approval of the
  superintendent, which approval  shall  not  be  given  if  it  would  be
  destructive  of  competition within a municipality, more than one common
  employer; provided, however, that an employer  group  with  under  three
  thousand  employees may be added upon receipt of a notice as provided in
  subdivision two of section four hundred seventy-eight of this article;
    (4) with the approval  of  the  superintendent,  and  subject  to  the
  provisions  of  paragraph  (b)  of this subdivision, more than one group
  each of which has, within  the  group,  a  common  bond  of  occupation,
  including  a  common employer, or association; provided, however, that a
  group of less than three thousand members, which  is  within  reasonable
  proximity to the credit union's service area or areas, may be added upon
  receipt  of  a  notice  as  provided  in subdivision two of section four
  hundred seventy-eight of this article; or
    (5) persons and organizations within a well-defined  local  community,
  neighborhood   or  rural  district  and  who  in  the  judgment  of  the
  superintendent have such a community of interest as will  insure  proper
  administration.
    (b)  In  considering  an  application to add a group to a credit union
  authorized under subparagraph four of paragraph (a) of this subdivision,
  the superintendent shall not approve the addition unless  the  group  is
  within reasonable proximity to the credit union's service area or areas.
  If  the  group  has more than three thousand members, the superintendent
  shall not approve such addition unless he or  she  determines  that  the
  group  could  not  feasibly  or reasonably establish a new single common
  bond credit union because:
    (1) the group  lacks  sufficient  volunteer  and  other  resources  to
  support the efficient and effective operation of a credit union;
    (2)  the group does not meet the criteria which the superintendent has
  determined to be important for the likelihood of success in establishing
  and managing a new credit union, including  demographic  characteristics
  such  as  geographical location of members, diversity of ages and income
  levels, and other factors that may affect the  financial  viability  and
  stability of a credit union;
    (3)  the  group  would  be unlikely to operate a safe and sound credit
  union; or
    (4) the group has  been  transferred  from  another  credit  union  in
  connection  with  a  merger  or  consolidation recommended by a state or
  federal regulator based on safety and soundness concerns or by the board
  of  the  National  Credit  Union  Administration  in  its  capacity   as
  conservator or liquidating agent.
    (c) With the approval of the superintendent, a credit union may extend
  membership   to  persons  and  organizations  in  an  underserved  local
  community, neighborhood or rural district, where such area is determined
  by the superintendent to be an  "investment  area"  as  defined  in  the
  federal  Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of
  1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(16)) and any  other  requirements  imposed  by  the
  superintendent,  including a requirement that the credit union establish
  and maintain an office or facility in such area.
    (d) To the extent not expressly prohibited by the bylaws of the credit
  union:
    (1)  in  each  instance  where  a  person  is  a member or is directly
  eligible for membership, members of  his  or  her  immediate  family  or
  household  shall  be  eligible  for membership. For the purposes of this
  subparagraph, "immediate family" means  a  person's  spouse,  and  their
  lineal  ancestors  and  descendants,  including  persons  so  related by
  adoption, siblings, stepparents,  stepchildren,  and  stepsiblings;  and
  "household" means persons living in the same residence and maintaining a
  single economic unit;
    (2)  any employee of the credit union shall be eligible to membership;
  and
    (3) any member who leaves the field of  membership  and  who  has  not
  withdrawn or been expelled may retain membership.
    (e) To the extent not expressly prohibited by the bylaws of the credit
  union,   any   incorporated   or  unincorporated  organization  composed
  principally of persons eligible to membership in the  credit  union  and
  the  organization's  employees  shall  be  eligible to membership in the
  credit union.
    (f) Any person who is eligible for membership by reason  of  the  fact
  that he or she is an employee either of a common employer or of a credit
  union  shall  not  become  ineligible,  after  the  termination  of such
  employment, as long as he or she receives a pension or annuity from,  or
  under,  a  plan or other arrangement established by such common employer
  or credit union.
    (g) The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to a  corporate
  credit union.
    3.  The  manner  of  conducting  meetings, the method by which members
  shall be notified of meetings, and the number  of  members  which  shall
  constitute a quorum.
    4. The number of directors, which shall be a number not less than five
  nor more than fifteen.
    5. The term of office of directors.
    6. The number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum.
    7.  The  time,  place and manner of holding the annual and any special
  meetings of the members of the credit union.
    8. The officers to be elected from among the board of directors; their
  titles, duties and terms of office.
    9. Whether one or more loan officers or, in the alternative, a  credit
  committee shall have the responsibility of passing upon the applications
  of  members  for  loans and the powers and duties of the loan officer or
  credit committee and the number of members,  not  less  than  three,  of
  which  the credit committee shall be composed, their term of office, and
  manner of election or appointment.
    10. The powers, duties, term of  office  and  manner  of  election  or
  appointment  of the supervisory committee and the number of members, not
  less than three, of which it shall be composed.
    11. The  conditions  upon  which  shares  may  be  issued,  paid  for,
  transferred and withdrawn.
    12.  The  fines, if any, which shall be charged for failure punctually
  to meet obligations to the corporation.
    13. The manner in which dividends shall  be  determined  and  paid  to
  members.
    14.  The  manner  in  which  the  funds  of  the  corporation shall be
  employed.
    15. The conditions upon which loans may be made and repaid.
    16. The maximum rate of interest that may be charged upon loans.
    17.  The  method  of receipting for money paid on account of shares or
  loans.


::: 452:when_corporate_existence_begins_conditions_precedent_to_commencing_business.html
 
    &#167;  452.  When  corporate  existence  begins;  conditions  precedent to
  commencing business.  When the superintendent shall  have  endorsed  his
  approval  on the organization certificate, as provided in article two of
  this chapter, the corporate existence of the credit union  shall  begin,
  and  it  shall  then  have  power to elect officers and to transact such
  other business as relates to its organization. But it shall transact  no
  other business until the superintendent shall have duly issued to it the
  authorization certificate specified in article two of this chapter.


::: 453:corporate_credit_unions.html
 
    &#167;  453.  Corporate  credit  unions. 1. A corporate credit union may be
  incorporated under this section and shall be subject to  all  provisions
  of this article not inconsistent with this section.
    2.  Membership  in a corporate credit union shall be institutional and
  shall be limited to: credit unions organized  under  this  article,  the
  Federal   Credit   Union   Act  or  any  other  credit  union  act,  and
  organizations or associations owned by or composed of credit unions  and
  corporations and associations which primarily service credit unions.
    3.  The  board  of  directors  of  each  credit  union,  organization,
  association or corporation becoming a member of a corporate credit union
  shall designate  one  person  to  be  a  voting  representative  in  the
  corporate  credit union. Such person shall be eligible to hold office in
  the corporate credit union as if  such  person  were  a  member  of  the
  corporate credit union.
    4.  A  corporate  credit union is a credit union whose members consist
  primarily of other credit unions and whose purposes are to:
    (a) accumulate and prudently manage the liquidity of its member credit
  unions through interlending and investment services;
    (b) act as an intermediary for credit union funds between members  and
  other corporate credit unions;
    (c)  obtain  liquid  funds  from  other  credit  union  organizations,
  financial intermediaries and other sources;
    (d) foster and promote in cooperation with other state,  regional  and
  national  corporate  credit  unions  and  credit  union organizations or
  associations the economic security, growth  and  development  of  member
  credit unions; and
    (e)  perform  such  other financial services of benefit to its members
  which are authorized by the superintendent.
    5. A corporate credit union shall enjoy the powers and  privileges  of
  any  other  credit  union incorporated under this chapter in addition to
  those powers enumerated in this article, notwithstanding any  limitation
  or  restrictions  found elsewhere in this article. The superintendent of
  financial  services  may  promulgate  such  regulations  concerning  the
  establishment  and  operations  of  corporate  credit  unions  as in its
  discretion are necessary and proper.  Subject  to  such  regulations,  a
  corporate credit union may:
    (a)  accept  shares  or  deposits  in any form from its members, other
  state, regional or national corporate credit unions,  and  credit  union
  organizations or associations;
    (b) make loans to its members and other credit unions and other state,
  regional,   or  national  corporate  credit  unions,  organizations  and
  associations of credit unions;
    (c) establish lines of credit for members and participate  with  other
  credit  unions  in  making  loans  to  its  members  under the terms and
  conditions determined by the board of directors;
    (d) invest in the shares of or make deposits in credit unions;
    (e) buy and sell any form of marketable debt obligations  of  domestic
  or foreign corporations or of federal, state or local government units;
    (f)   borrow   money,  accept  demand  deposits  and  issue  notes  or
  debentures;
    (g) acquire or sell the assets and assume the liabilities of a member;
  and
    (h) enter into agreements with credit unions to discount  or  purchase
  loans  made pursuant to government-guaranteed loan programs, real estate
  loans made by members or any obligations of the  United  States  or  any
  agency thereof held by members.
    6.  A  corporate  credit  union  shall  be  exempt  from  the  reserve
  requirements of section four hundred fifty-eight-a of this article,  but
  shall be required to accumulate and maintain reserves in accordance with
  the requirements of the National Credit Union Administration.


::: 454:general_powers.html
 
    &#167;  454.  General  powers.  In  addition to the powers conferred by the
  provisions of this  chapter,  a  credit  union  shall,  subject  to  the
  restrictions  and  limitations contained in this article, in its bylaws,
  and in any regulations promulgated by  the  superintendent,  or  in  any
  regulations  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services  as may be
  specifically authorized under this section, have the following powers:
    1. To issue and receive payments on, shares, share drafts,  and  share
  certificates,  subject  to  such  terms,  rates,  and  conditions as are
  established by its board of directors, from its members and  from  other
  credit unions, both state and federally chartered.
    A  member  may  designate any person or persons to own shares or share
  certificates with him  or  her  in  joint  tenancy  with  the  right  of
  survivorship,  but  no  joint  tenant shall be permitted to vote, obtain
  loans, or hold  office,  unless  he  or  she  is  within  the  field  of
  membership and is a qualified member.
    2.  To  act as trustee under a retirement plan established pursuant to
  the  provisions  of  the  act  of   congress   entitled   "Self-employed
  Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962," and provisions of law contained
  therein,  as  amended;  provided  that the provisions of such retirement
  plan require the funds of such trust to be invested exclusively in share
  accounts of insured state and federally chartered credit unions. In  the
  event  that  any  such  retirement  plan,  which, in the judgment of the
  credit union, constituted a qualified plan under the provisions of  said
  self-employed   individuals  tax  retirement  act  of  nineteen  hundred
  sixty-two, and provisions of law contained therein, as amended, and  the
  regulations promulgated thereunder at the time the trust was established
  and  accepted  by the credit union, is subsequently determined not to be
  such a qualified plan or subsequently ceases  to  be  such  a  qualified
  plan,  in whole or in part, the credit union may, nevertheless, continue
  to act as trustee of any shares theretofore made under such plan and  to
  dispose   of   the  same  in  accordance  with  the  directions  of  the
  shareholders and the beneficiaries thereof. No credit union, in  respect
  to  shares  purchased  under  this  subdivision,  shall  be  required to
  segregate such shares from other shares of such credit union;  provided,
  however, that the credit union shall keep appropriate records showing in
  proper  detail  all  transactions engaged in under the authority of this
  subdivision.
    3. To act as trustee of an individual retirement  account  established
  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the act of congress entitled "Employee
  Retirement Income Security Act of 1974," and provisions of law contained
  therein, as  amended;  provided  that  the  provisions  of  the  written
  governing  instrument creating the trust require the funds of such trust
  to be invested exclusively  in  share  accounts  of  insured  state  and
  federally chartered credit unions. In the event that any such individual
  retirement  account,  which,  in  the  judgment  of  the  credit  union,
  constituted  a  qualified  individual  retirement  account   under   the
  provisions  of said employee retirement income security act of 1974, and
  provisions of law contained therein, as  amended,  and  the  regulations
  promulgated  thereunder  at  the  time  the  trust  was  established and
  accepted by the credit union, is subsequently determined not to be  such
  a  qualified  individual retirement account or subsequently ceases to be
  such a qualified individual retirement account, in whole or in part, the
  credit union may, nevertheless, continue to act as trustee of any shares
  theretofore purchased under such individual retirement  account  and  to
  dispose of the same in accordance with the directions of the shareholder
  and  the  beneficiaries  thereof.  No credit union, in respect to shares
  purchased under this subdivision, shall be required  to  segregate  such
  shares  from  other shares of such credit union; provided, however, that
  the credit union shall keep appropriate records showing in proper detail
  all transactions engaged in under the authority of this subdivision.
    4.  To  charge  an  entrance fee to any person who has applied for and
  been elected to membership.
    5. To charge a reasonable fee for the transfer of its shares.
    6. (a) To lend money to its members at the rate or rates agreed to  by
  the  credit union and the borrower upon such terms and conditions as are
  established by its board of directors and subject  to  such  regulations
  and  restrictions  as  the  superintendent  of  financial services finds
  necessary and proper.
    (b) The knowingly taking, receiving, reserving, or charging a  greater
  rate  of  interest  than  permitted  by law shall be held and adjudged a
  forfeiture of the entire interest which the note or  other  evidence  of
  debt  carries  with  it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. If
  such greater rate of interest has been paid, the person paying the  same
  or  his legal representatives may recover twice the entire amount of the
  interest thus paid from the credit union.
    (c) (i) No credit union may make any member business loan  that  would
  result  in a total amount of such loans outstanding at that credit union
  at any one time equal to more than the lesser of 1.75 times  the  actual
  net  worth  of  the  credit  union,  or 1.75 times the minimum net worth
  required under 12 U.S.C. 1790d(c)(1)(A) for a credit union  to  be  well
  capitalized.
    (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph does not apply in the case of:
  (A)  a  credit  union chartered for the purpose of making, or that has a
  history of primarily making, member business loans to  its  members,  as
  determined  by  the  superintendent;  or  (B) a credit union that serves
  predominantly low-income members, as defined by the  superintendent,  or
  which  is a community development financial institution as defined in 12
  U.S.C. 4702; or (C) a credit union excepted  from  the  requirements  of
  such  subparagraph  (i) by the superintendent where such credit union is
  seeking an exception from any federal limits on member business loans to
  the same extent as permitted to federally-insured  state  credit  unions
  pursuant  to  the  Federal  Credit  Union  Act  and  regulations related
  thereto,  provided  that  such  credit   union   demonstrates   to   the
  satisfaction   of  the  superintendent  that  such  exception  would  be
  consistent with the declaration of policy as set forth in section ten of
  this chapter.
    (iii) For purposes of this paragraph the term "member  business  loan"
  and  the  term "net worth" shall have the same meaning as such terms are
  defined in 12 U.S.C. 1757a.
    7. (a) To issue credit cards, debit  cards,  and  similar  devices  to
  allow  members  to  make  purchases  and to access their loans, lines of
  credit, shares and deposits;
    (b) To collect, receive and disburse  funds  in  connection  with  the
  issuance  of negotiable checks, money orders, travelers checks and other
  payment instruments to members, and to charge a fee for such services;
    (c) To rent safe deposit boxes to members; and
    (d) To provide any related financial services to members which are not
  expressly authorized pursuant to this article, including but not limited
  to electronic funds  transfers  and  correspondent  services;  provided,
  however,  that  any  credit  union which seeks to offer any such related
  financial services which it has not offered prior to June twentieth, two
  thousand three shall, not less than sixty days prior  to  offering  such
  services, notify the superintendent in writing of its intention to offer
  such  services.  If the superintendent does not object in writing to the
  offering of such services within sixty days after  the  receipt  of  the
  notice, the credit union may offer such services to its members.
    8.  To  deposit any moneys received by it, and not lent to members, in
  one or more  state  or  federally  chartered  banking  organizations  or
  branches  of  foreign  banking  corporations  which  are  insured by the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,  by  the  National  Credit  Union
  Share  Insurance  Fund,  or  by  another  agency  of  the  United States
  government.
    9. To borrow money subject to such regulations and restrictions as the
  superintendent of financial services finds necessary and proper from any
  source in an aggregate amount not  exceeding  fifty  percent  of  assets
  without the written approval of the superintendent.
    10.  To impose financing charges and late charges in the event of late
  payment or default on loans and recover reasonable costs  and  expenses,
  including  collection costs and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred both
  before and after judgment.
    11. To suspend or expel members, as provided in section  four  hundred
  sixty-four of this article.
    12.  To  impress  and  enforce a lien upon the shares, share accounts,
  share certificates, deposits, dividends, and accumulation of interest on
  the shares, accounts, certificates, and deposits of any  member  to  the
  extent  of  any  sums owed the credit union by said member and any loans
  made to him or her directly or indirectly or  on  which  he  or  she  is
  surety, guarantor, or endorser.
    13.  To  cancel  the shares of any member who withdraws or is expelled
  and apply the withdrawal  value  thereof  to  the  liquidation  of  such
  member's indebtedness to the corporation.
    14.  Subject  to  the  limitations  contained  in subdivision seven of
  section four hundred fifty-six of this article, to hold  shares  in  and
  make loans to other credit unions, whether state or federally chartered.
    15.   To   conduct   its   business   at  automated  teller  machines,
  point-of-sale terminals, shared service centers, and similar  facilities
  subject to regulations which may be promulgated by the superintendent of
  financial  services.  Such facilities shall not be deemed to be stations
  and shall not be subject to  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  chapter
  applicable to stations.
    16.  To  issue shares to and accept deposits from a member in the name
  of a minor. Such shares and deposits  shall  be  held  for  the  minor's
  exclusive  right  and benefit and free from control or lien of all other
  persons, except creditors.  The  withdrawal  value  of  such  shares  or
  deposits  shall  be  paid  to  the  person  in whose name such shares or
  deposits are held. A receipt or acquittance of a minor  shall  be  valid
  and  sufficient  release  and  discharge  to  such  credit union for all
  payments made on account of such shares or deposits.
    17. To issue shares to and accept deposits from a  member,  which  are
  held  in  the name of a member in trust for a beneficiary or in the name
  of a non-member  in  trust  for  a  beneficiary  who  is  a  member.  No
  beneficiary, unless a member in his or her own right, shall be permitted
  to  vote, obtain loans, or hold office or be required to pay an entrance
  or membership fee. Payment of part or all of such a trust account to the
  party in whose name the account is held shall, to  the  extent  of  such
  payment,  discharge  the liability of the credit union to that party and
  to the beneficiary, and the credit union shall be under no obligation to
  see to the application of such payment. In the event of the death of the
  party who owns a trust account, if the credit union has  been  given  no
  other  written notice of the existence or terms of any trust and has not
  received a court order as to disposition of the account,  the  account's
  funds  and  any  dividends  or  interest  thereon  shall  be paid to the
  beneficiary.
    18. (a) To invest its funds in: (i)  Those  securities  authorized  as
  permissible  investments  for  savings  banks  by subdivisions one, two,
  three,  four,  twelve,  paragraph  (a)  of  subdivision  twelve-a,   and
  subdivisions  fifteen,  seventeen,  twenty-seven  and  twenty-eight-a of
  section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter.
    (ii)  Advances  of  federal  funds  as authorized for savings banks by
  subdivision twelve-b of section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter.
    (iii) Common trust units of a credit union investment  pool  organized
  for the purchase of:
    (A)  obligations  of the United States of America, or securities fully
  guaranteed as to principal and interest thereby;
    (B) obligations issued by banks for cooperatives, federal land  banks,
  federal  intermediate credit banks, federal home loan banks, the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Board, or any corporation designated in  section  846  of
  Title  31  of  the  United  States  Code  as  a  wholly owned government
  corporation, or in obligations, participations, or other instruments  of
  or  issued  by, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the
  Federal  National  Mortgage  Association  or  the  Government   National
  Mortgage  Association, or in mortgages, obligations, or other securities
  which are or ever have been sold  by  the  Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage
  Corporation  pursuant  to section 1454 or 1455 of Title 12 of the United
  States Code, or in obligations or other instruments or securities of the
  Student Loan Marketing Association;
    (C) participation  certificates  evidencing  beneficial  interests  in
  obligations,   or  in  the  right  to  receive  interest  and  principal
  collections therefrom, which obligations have been subjected by  one  or
  more  government  agencies  to a trust or trusts for which any executive
  department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States (or the head
  thereof) has been named to act as trustee; provided that such investment
  pool has been approved by the superintendent; or
    (D) securities, obligations or other instruments of, or issued by, any
  agency of the United States.
    (iv) Where the assets of a credit union are in excess of three million
  dollars, such credit union is further authorized to invest its funds  in
  the  securities  enumerated  in  subdivisions  thirteen  and fourteen of
  section two hundred thirty-five of this chapter, subject in each case to
  those limitations applicable to such investment in the case  of  savings
  banks.
    (b) All such securities, except those purchased in a common trust unit
  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (iii)  of paragraph (a) of this subdivision,
  must be registered in the name of the credit union; provided that  where
  any  such  securities  are non-registerable, except those purchased in a
  common trust investment pool, as hereinbefore provided,  they  shall  be
  placed  in the custody of a bank, trust company, national bank, or state
  or federal corporate credit union in the name of the credit  union,  and
  shall  be  retained by such bank, trust company, national bank, or state
  or federal corporate credit union until such securities  are  liquidated
  at  maturity  or  sold,  in  either of which events the proceeds of such
  securities shall be deposited in the name of the  credit  union  in  any
  institution specified in subdivision eight of this section.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subdivision, a credit union
  may invest the lesser of ten percent of its capital or net worth, but at
  least  ten  thousand  dollars,  in  the  shares of investment companies;
  provided that the portfolio of such investment company  consists  solely
  of  securities  in which credit unions are permitted to invest directly.
  The term "investment companies" means open-end and close-end  investment
  companies  and  unit investment trusts as these terms are used in an Act
  of Congress entitled "Investment Company Act of 1940."
    19. Subject to regulations and restrictions of the  superintendent  of
  financial  services,  a  credit  union  may invest its funds in and make
  loans to  credit  union  organizations;  provided  that  such  loans  or
  investments shall be approved by the board of directors. No such loan or
  investment  shall be made by a credit union pursuant to this subdivision
  if the amount of such loan or investment exceeds three per centum of the
  total sum due to the members on shares and deposits. For the purpose  of
  this  subdivision,  a  credit  union  organization  is  any organization
  established primarily to serve the needs of its member state and federal
  credit unions, and whose business relates to the daily operations of the
  credit unions it serves.
    20. To purchase, sell,  service,  pledge  or  discount,  or  otherwise
  receive  or  dispose  of,  eligible  obligations  to  the same extent as
  authorized  pursuant  to  Title  12  U.S.C.  section  1757(13)  and  any
  regulations  promulgated  thereunder, as such laws or regulations may be
  amended from time to time.
    21. To purchase, hold, lease and convey a plot whereon there is or may
  be erected a building suitable for the transaction of its business, from
  portions of which not required for its own use a revenue may be derived,
  and a plot whereon parking accommodations are or  are  to  be  provided,
  with  or without charge, primarily for its members or employees or both;
  provided that the net aggregate of all investments of any  credit  union
  in  such  plots  and  building shall be limited to six per centum of the
  capital and retained earnings of such  credit  union,  except  with  the
  approval of the superintendent.
    22. To enter into contracts.
    23.  To sue and to be sued in all courts and to participate in actions
  and proceedings, whether judicial, arbitrative, or  otherwise,  in  like
  cases as natural persons.
    24.  To have a corporate seal, and to alter such seal at pleasure, and
  to use it by causing it or a facsimile to be  affixed  or  impressed  or
  reproduced in any other manner.
    25.  To  make  donations,  irrespective  of corporate benefit, for the
  public welfare or for community fund, hospital, charitable, educational,
  scientific, civic, or similar purposes, and, in time  of  war  or  other
  national emergency, in aid thereof.
    26.  To  elect or appoint officers, employees, and other agents of the
  credit union, define their duties, fix the compensation of employees and
  other  agents,  and  to  indemnify  credit  union  officials,  committee
  members, and employees.
    27. To have perpetual existence.
    28.  To  honor  requests  for  withdrawals of member accounts, whether
  shares or deposits, in any manner approved by the credit  union's  board
  of  directors,  including,  without  limitation  because of enumeration,
  requests  in  person,  by  telephone,  by   mail,   by   negotiable   or
  non-negotiable  order,  by  electronic  communication, or otherwise. The
  board of directors may,  at  any  time,  require  members  to  give,  in
  writing,  not  more than sixty days' notice of intention to withdraw the
  whole or any part of the amounts paid  in  by  them,  except  that  this
  requirement  shall  not  apply  to  amounts in a share draft or checking
  account. In the event that any credit union shall require that notice be
  given before such amounts may be withdrawn, it shall, before or upon the
  day such requirement is made effective,  notify  the  superintendent  by
  telephone,  other  electronic  means or in writing that such requirement
  has been made.
    29. To, either on an individual or participation basis,  establish  or
  maintain  an  accounting  service center, the functions, facilities, and
  operations of which are limited to providing data  processing  services.
  As  used  in this subdivision, the term "data processing services" means
  the maintenance of bookkeeping, accounting, or other records related  to
  the purposes and functions of a credit union, primarily by mechanical or
  electronic  methods,  and  the  furnishing  of  reports  and information
  derived from such  records.  Participation  in  the  accounting  service
  center  may  be  by  means  of  a  partnership  or  other  non-corporate
  arrangement  between  or  among  the  participating   entities   or   by
  participation  in an accounting service center corporation organized for
  the sole purpose of providing data processing services. A credit union's
  individual or proportionate ownership of the accounting  service  center
  shall not exceed two percent of its members' shareholdings.
    30.  To  acquire  and  lease  personal  property, and to hold, assign,
  pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of such personal property, to the same
  extent as authorized under subdivision twelve of section  ninety-six  of
  this  chapter,  subject  to  such  limitations  and  conditions  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may from time to time prescribe  by
  general regulation.
    31.  To  hold  membership  in other credit unions organized under this
  article or under federal law or any  other  credit  union  act,  and  in
  associations  and organizations controlled by or fostering the interests
  of credit unions, including a central liquidity facility organized under
  state or federal law.
    32. To execute and deliver for its members such guarantees as  may  be
  incidental or usual in the transfer of investment securities.
    33.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  article  to the
  contrary, to participate in the  minority  -  and  women-owned  business
  development  and  lending  program,  as  established  in section 16-c of
  section 1 of chapter 174 of the laws of  1968,  constituting  the  urban
  development  corporation  act,  to  the  extent that such program allows
  participation by credit unions.
    34. To have and exercise  all  other  powers  that  are  necessary  or
  appropriate to enable it to carry out its purpose.
    35. To participate in loans to credit union members jointly with other
  credit   unions,   credit   union   organizations,   or   other  banking
  organizations pursuant to written policies established by the  board  of
  directors;  provided  that  a  credit  union which originates a loan for
  which participation arrangements are made shall retain an interest in at
  least ten percent of the face amount of the  loan.  The  member  of  the
  originating  credit  union benefiting from the proceeds of the loan need
  not be within the  field  of  membership  of  the  other  credit  unions
  participating in the loan.
    36.  To  invest its funds in a collateralized mortgage obligation/real
  estate mortgage investment conduit. A credit union may invest in a fixed
  or variable rate collateralized mortgage obligation/real estate mortgage
  investment conduit, subject to  the  same  extent  and  under  the  same
  conditions  as  federal  credit  unions  are  authorized  to  so invest,
  pursuant to the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C 1757(15)(B)) and  any
  regulations related thereto, as amended.


::: 455:trust_powers.html
 
    &#167;  455.  Trust  powers. 1. The superintendent of financial services is
  authorized and empowered to  grant  permission  to  a  credit  union  to
  exercise any or all of the powers specified in sections one hundred, one
  hundred-a,  one  hundred-b and one hundred-c of this chapter. In passing
  upon applications for  permission  to  exercise  any  such  powers,  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  may take into consideration the
  amount of net worth of the applying credit union, whether  or  not  such
  net  worth  is sufficient under the circumstances of the case, the needs
  of the community to be served and any other facts and circumstances that
  seem to it proper, and may grant or refuse it permission accordingly.
    2. Whenever the laws of this state require a trust company acting in a
  fiduciary capacity to deposit securities with the state authorities  for
  the protection of private or court trusts, a credit union, so acting, is
  required and empowered to make similar deposits of securities.
    3.   The   superintendent  of  financial  services  is  authorized  to
  promulgate such regulations as  it  may  deem  necessary  or  proper  to
  implement  the provisions of this section and the proper exercise of the
  powers granted by this section.


::: 456:limitations_upon_powers.html
 
    &#167; 456. Limitations upon powers. No credit union shall:
    1.  Pay any commission or compensation for securing members or for the
  sale of its shares; except that such restrictions shall not  prohibit  a
  credit  union  from  issuing or selling shares to other state or federal
  credit unions  through  deposit  brokers,  subject  to  any  regulations
  prescribed  by the superintendent, nor pay any compensation to directors
  or committee members except that directors and committee members may  be
  reimbursed  for  reasonable and proper costs incurred while carrying out
  the responsibilities of their positions.  Such  reimbursement  shall  be
  determined  by  the board of directors to be appropriate in carrying out
  the official business of the credit union and  shall  be  in  accordance
  with   written   policies   and   procedures,   including  documentation
  requirements, established by the board of directors.
    2. Make any loan to any member, if, upon the making of that loan,  the
  member  would  be  indebted  to  the credit union upon loans made to, or
  guaranteed or endorsed by, such member  in  an  aggregate  amount  which
  would  exceed ten per centum of the capital and undivided profits of the
  credit union.
    3. Impose a fine, in case of failure of a member to make  payments  on
  shares,  exceeding  two  per  centum per month or fraction of a month on
  amounts due.
    4. Permit any  director,  officer,  employee,  member  of  the  credit
  committee  or  supervisory committee to borrow directly or indirectly or
  become surety for any loan or advance made by such  credit  union  where
  such  loan  or  advance  or  aggregate  loans  or advances exceed twenty
  thousand dollars, unless  the  loan  or  advance  is  fully  secured  in
  accordance with criteria established by the board of directors or unless
  the  loan  or  advance  is approved by a majority of the entire board of
  directors. Such approval must be given in writing. Complete  minutes  of
  such  meeting  shall  be  kept  which  shall  include  the  names of all
  directors present. The rate of interest or discount charged on any  such
  loan  to  a  director,  officer  or  member  of  the credit committee or
  supervisory committee shall not be less than the  rate  of  interest  or
  discount  charged  for loans of like character in the ordinary course of
  business.
    5. Issue any shares except as provided in subdivision one  of  section
  four  hundred  fifty-four  of  this article, and unless there is printed
  upon the  certificate  or  other  evidence  of  such  shares  the  words
  "Transferable only to qualified members."
    6.  Retain  physical  possession  of  a  passbook or other evidence of
  membership of any member  except  that  the  supervisory  committee  may
  retain such passbook or other evidence of membership for a period not to
  exceed  ten  days  for the purpose of auditing the records of the credit
  union.
    7. Except in the case of a state or federal  corporate  credit  union,
  make  any  loan  or  other  extension of credit to, or investment in the
  shares of, any  other  credit  union  other  than  a  state  or  federal
  corporate  credit union in an amount the aggregate of which shall exceed
  twenty-five per centum of its assets or twenty-five per  centum  of  the
  assets   of  such  other  credit  union;  provided,  however,  that  the
  superintendent may approve a credit union's request to invest  a  higher
  per  centum  of its assets in any other credit union; nor shall a credit
  union issue or sell one or more shares to another credit  union  if,  by
  such  issuance or sale, the aggregate of its shares held by other credit
  unions will  thereby  exceed  thirty  per  centum  of  its  own  assets;
  provided,  however, that the superintendent may approve a credit union's
  request to issue or sell shares which aggregate a higher per  centum  of
  its  assets to other credit unions. Extension of credit to or investment
  in the shares of another credit union or the issuance or sale of  shares
  to  another  credit  union, under this subdivision, shall include credit
  unions chartered by the federal government or federally  insured  credit
  unions chartered by a state.
    In  the  case  of a corporate credit union, no loan shall be made to a
  member credit union in an amount in excess  of  twenty  percent  of  the
  share capital of the corporate credit union.
    8.  Permit  any  member to withdraw any shares pledged as security for
  any loan on which such member is liable as maker, endorser, guarantor or
  surety except upon the prior written  approval  of  a  majority  of  the
  credit  committee or the loan officer. In any case, the amount of shares
  in excess of the liability of such member as maker, endorser,  guarantor
  or surety, may be withdrawn without the approval of the credit committee
  or the loan officer.
    9.  Make  a  loan to a member upon the security of a mortgage which is
  not a first lien, unless such loan is in compliance with the regulations
  of the  superintendent  of  financial  services.  Such  regulations  may
  include  such  restrictions  as the superintendent of financial services
  finds necessary and proper, including without limitation, a  restriction
  as  to  the  percentage  of  total  assets which may be invested in such
  loans, a restriction on the loan-to-appraisal value of property securing
  such loan, a restriction on the maximum amount  to  be  loaned  to  each
  member,  and  a  limitation  on  such loans based upon share capital, as
  determined by the superintendent of financial services.


::: 457:capital.html
 
    &#167;  457.  Capital.  The  capital of a credit union shall consist of the
  payments and dividends credited to shareholders on their shares.


::: 458-a:maintenance_of_reserves.html
 
    &#167;  458-a.  Maintenance of reserves. A credit union shall contribute to
  and maintain such net worth reserve  categories  as  the  superintendent
  shall,  by  regulation,  prescribe. Such regulations shall provide for a
  system of maintaining net worth reserves that is comparable to  that  of
  Title  12  U.S.C. section 1790(d) and any regulations promulgated by the
  National Credit Union Administration  thereunder,  except  as  otherwise
  deemed   necessary   by   the  superintendent  in  accordance  with  the
  declaration of policy set forth in section ten of this chapter.


::: 459:allowance_for_loan_loss.html
 
    &#167;  459.  Allowance  for loan loss.  An allowance for loan loss account
  shall be established and maintained in an  amount  that  represents  the
  current  estimated  loss  on  loans. The allowance for loan loss account
  requirement shall be computed and adjusted, through  the  provision  for
  loan loss account, prior to the payment of dividends.
    The  calculation of this account shall be in accordance with the rules
  established by the National Credit Union Administration.


::: 45:export_finance_awareness_program.html
 
    &#167; 45.  Export finance awareness program. There shall be created within
  the department an export finance awareness program. Such  program  shall
  provide in a manner prescribed by the superintendent, but not be limited
  to, the following:
    1.  information  to  all  the various banking corporations principally
  engaged in doing business within the state, about  the  various  methods
  used  by  particular corporations which provide financing for businesses
  engaged in the export of products or services to foreign countries;
    2. information to such  banking  corporations  about  other  state  or
  federal  programs  designed  to promote or expedite financing of exports
  that may be of value to them, specifically such  programs  that  may  be
  targeted to the small and medium-size transactions; and
    3.  the  use of seminars, workshops, written materials disseminated by
  the  department  or  any  other  methods  the  superintendent  may  deem
  necessary or proper for the provision of such information.


::: 460:dividends_to_shareholders_conditions_precedent.html
 
    &#167;  460.  Dividends to shareholders; conditions precedent. 1. The board
  of directors of any credit union may declare a dividend from the  credit
  union's undivided profits calculated as provided in this article for any
  period determined by the board of directors.
    2. Earnings from all sources for the period for which a dividend is to
  be  paid, except as provided in section four hundred fifty-eight of this
  article, may be credited to the profit and loss account  of  the  credit
  union  and  the following items shall be charged against such account in
  the determination of the amount available for dividends to shareholders:
    (a) All  expenses  paid  or  incurred  by  the  credit  union  in  the
  management   of  its  affairs,  the  collection  of  its  debts  or  the
  transaction of its business.
    (b) The interest paid or accrued on debts owed by the credit union.
    (c) All losses incurred on loans in excess of the allowance  for  loan
  loss account.
    (d)  Any interest collected in advance shall be considered unearned at
  the end of the fiscal period, and shall  be  set  aside  in  an  account
  called "unearned interest".
  The  credit  balance  of  the profit and loss account as thus determined
  shall constitute the undivided profits of the credit union at the  close
  of  such  period,  and  shall  be applicable to the payment of dividends
  except as provided in subdivision three of this section.
    3. No dividend shall be credited or paid unless the credit union has:
    (a) Made good any existing impairment of its capital; and
    (b) Carried to its allowance for loan loss account such  part  of  its
  earnings  as  is  required  by  section  four hundred fifty-nine of this
  article.
    4. Dividends may be paid on shares and share certificates  at  various
  rates with due consideration of the conditions that pertain to each type
  of account such as minimum balance, notice and time requirements.
    5.  When  any  dividend  shall  be  declared  in  excess of the amount
  available for dividends as determined in accordance with the  provisions
  of  this  section,  the  directors  voting for such dividend may be held
  jointly and severally liable to the credit union for the amount  of  the
  excess so declared.


::: 461:change_of_location_estblishment_of_stations_extension_or_revival_of_corporate_existence.html
 
    &#167;  461.  Change  of  location; establishment of stations; extension or
  revival of corporate existence. 1. Any credit union may make  a  written
  application  to  the  superintendent  for  leave  to change its place of
  business to another place within the state of New York. The  application
  shall  state  the  reasons  for  such  proposed  change,  and  shall  be
  accompanied by a copy of a resolution  authorizing  the  making  of  the
  application,  certified  by  a  principal officer of the credit union to
  have been adopted by a vote  of  a  majority  of  its  entire  board  of
  directors  at  a  meeting  of  such  board, duly convened and held. Such
  change may be made upon the written approval of the  superintendent.  If
  the superintendent shall grant his certificate authorizing the change of
  location,  as  provided in article two of this chapter, the credit union
  may, upon or after the day specified  in  the  certificate,  remove  its
  property and effects to the location designated therein.
    2.  Subject  to  such regulations as the superintendent may adopt, any
  credit union, may open and maintain within or without the state, in  any
  locality  in  which  a  substantial  portion  of  its  actual  potential
  membership is employed or residing, one or more stations for the conduct
  of its business provided that before any such station or stations  shall
  be opened or maintained or removed to a new location:
    (a)  Its  board  of  directors  shall  submit  to the superintendent a
  written application setting forth the reasons therefor and the  proposed
  location of such station or stations.
    (b) The superintendent shall have given his written approval thereto.
    3.  Every application submitted under either subdivision one or two of
  this section shall be accompanied by an investigation fee as  prescribed
  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.
    4.  By votes cast by a majority of the shareholders of record entitled
  to vote at a meeting called for the purpose, a credit union, not  having
  perpetual  existence, may extend its duration, or, if it ceased to exist
  because of the expiration of the duration specified in its  organization
  certificate,   may  revive  its  existence.  Such  resolution  shall  be
  transmitted to the superintendent, who shall issue, under his  hand  and
  the  official  seal  of  the  department,  in  triplicate, a certificate
  setting forth the duration  of  the  credit  union  as  extended,  which
  certificates  shall  be  transmitted  and  filed  in  the same manner as
  authorization certificates.


::: 462:foreign_credit_unions.html
 
    &#167;  462.  Foreign  credit  unions.  Subject  to such regulations as the
  superintendent may adopt, any credit union located in a state other than
  this state may open and maintain in this state, in any locality in which
  a substantial portion of its actual or potential membership is  employed
  or  residing,  one  or  more  stations  for  the conduct of its business
  provided that before any such station or stations  shall  be  opened  or
  maintained or removed to a new location:
    1. Its board of directors shall submit to the superintendent a written
  application setting forth the reasons therefor and the proposed location
  of such station or stations. The application for each such station shall
  be  accompanied by a fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of
  this chapter.
    2. The superintendent shall have given his written approval thereto.


::: 463:exemptions_and_individual_liability_of_shareholders.html
 
    &#167;  463.  Exemptions  and  individual  liability of shareholders.   The
  transfer of the shares of any credit union shall not  be  taxable  under
  the provisions of article twelve of the tax law.
    The  shareholders  of  a credit union shall not be individually liable
  for the payment of the credit union's debts.


::: 464:manner_of_withdrawal_expulsion_or_suspension_of_members_effect_upon_liabilities_to_credit_unions.html
 
    &#167;  464.  Manner  of  withdrawal;  expulsion  or suspension of members;
  effect upon liabilities to  credit  unions.  1.  A  member  desiring  to
  withdraw  from  a credit union shall file a written notice of his or her
  intention to withdraw. However, a member who fails to  complete  payment
  of one share within six months of his or her admission to membership, or
  within  six  months  from  an  increase in the par value of shares, or a
  member who reduces his or her share balance below the par value  of  one
  share and does not increase the balance to at least the par value of one
  share  within  six  months  of  the reduction will be considered to have
  withdrawn from membership in the credit union.
    2. The board of directors, pursuant to a written  policy  approved  by
  such  board, may expel or suspend any member who has not carried out his
  or her engagements with the credit union, or who has been convicted of a
  criminal offense,  or  who  neglects  or  refuses  to  comply  with  the
  provisions of this article, or of the bylaws, or who habitually neglects
  to pay his or her debts, or who becomes insolvent or bankrupt, or who is
  physically  or  verbally  abusive to credit union members or staff. Such
  written policy shall include the conditions and procedures under which a
  member may be expelled or  may  be  suspended,  in  whole  or  in  part,
  regarding member participation in services and other rights and benefits
  of  membership;  provided, however, that a member who has been suspended
  may continue to maintain a share account and may  continue  to  vote  at
  annual and special meetings.
    (a)  Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subdivision, a member
  shall not be expelled or suspended unless he or she has been informed in
  writing of the charges against him or her  and  has  been  provided  the
  opportunity to be heard within thirty days of the date of the mailing or
  delivery of such written notice.
    (b) In the case of a member who has been physically abusive or who has
  made  threats of physical harm or violence, such member may be suspended
  or expelled from the date of the mailing or delivery of a written notice
  of such action and the reasons for the suspension or expulsion. As  part
  of  such  notice,  the  member  shall  be  advised of the opportunity to
  request reinstatement and to be heard within thirty days of the date  of
  the mailing or delivery of such notice.
    3.  Any  member  of  a  credit  union who withdraws or is suspended or
  expelled shall not be relieved of any liability to the corporation.  The
  amounts  paid  in  on shares or deposited by such members, together with
  any dividends credited to  their  shares  and  any  interest  which  has
  accrued on their deposits, shall be repaid to them in the order of their
  withdrawal, suspension or expulsion, as funds become available therefor,
  but  the credit union may deduct from such payments any sums due it from
  such members.


::: 465:withdrawal_of_shares_after_voting_to_liquidate_notices_to_shareholders.html
 
    &#167;  465.  Withdrawal  of  shares  after voting to liquidate; notices to
  shareholders.  After the shareholders of a credit union have duly  voted
  that  the  credit  union  be  closed  and  such  business  wound  up and
  voluntarily liquidated, and prior to  the  entry  of  an  order  of  the
  supreme  court  declaring  the business of such credit union closed, any
  shareholder withdrawing any or all of his shares shall be given  written
  notice  by  the  credit  union  at  the  time  of such withdrawal on the
  withdrawal notice, that it has been duly voted to close the corporation,
  wind up its business and voluntarily liquidate, that application may  be
  made  to  the  supreme court for a closing order pursuant to subdivision
  four of section six hundred five of this chapter, and that by  receiving
  payment  for the shares surrendered, he will not be entitled to any part
  of the surplus which may remain upon final liquidation and  which  would
  have been credited upon such shares had the same remained until the time
  that  the  closing  order  was  obtained.  If the notice is not given as
  aforesaid, the shareholder shall be entitled to share in the surplus, as
  if he had not made the withdrawal.


::: 466:meetings_of_shareholders_voting.html
 
    &#167;  466.  Meetings  of  shareholders;  voting.  1.  At  all meetings of
  shareholders of every credit union each shareholder shall have one  vote
  irrespective  of the number of shares which he holds; provided, however,
  after a credit union has been in existence for a period of more than one
  year, only a person who shall have been a  shareholder  of  such  credit
  union  for  ninety  days  prior to the date of any such meeting shall be
  entitled to vote. Every member entitled to vote at a meeting of  members
  of  the  credit union may authorize another person or persons to act for
  him by proxy at such meeting or, if the bylaws so provide, may  vote  by
  mail  in  accordance with the provisions of the bylaws. Every proxy must
  be signed by the member or his attorney-in-fact.    No  proxy  shall  be
  valid except for the meeting specified therein and adjournments thereof.
  Every  proxy  shall be revocable at the pleasure of the member executing
  it. The authority of the holder of a proxy to act shall not  be  revoked
  by  the  incompetence  or  death  of  the  member who executed the proxy
  unless,  before  the  authority  is  exercised,  written  notice  of  an
  adjudication  of  such  incompetence or of such death is received by the
  officer of the credit union responsible  for  maintaining  the  list  of
  members.  A  shareholder  may  vote by proxy at a meeting called to vote
  upon voluntary dissolution. The bylaws may  prohibit  or  further  limit
  proxies   for   members   and  their  duration.  No  officer,  director,
  supervisory committee member, credit  committee  member,  loan  officer,
  clerk, teller or bookkeeper of the credit union shall act as such proxy.
  No  director,  supervisory committee member, credit committee member, or
  officer of a credit union shall be eligible to act as an inspector of an
  election  of  directors,  supervisory  committee  members   and   credit
  committee members, at any meeting of members of the credit union.
    2.  Complete minutes of all shareholders' meetings shall be kept which
  shall include a record of the exact number of members  present  together
  with  a  count  of  votes  cast  for  the  election of all directors and
  committee members.
    3. Upon the petition of any shareholder aggrieved by an election,  and
  upon  notice  to the persons declared elected, the credit union and such
  other persons as the court may direct, the supreme court  at  a  special
  term  held  within  the judicial district where the office of the credit
  union is located shall forthwith hear the proofs and allegations of  the
  parties,  and  confirm  the  election, order a new election or take such
  other action as justice may require.


::: 467:qualifications_and_disqualifications_of_directors_and_committee_members.html
 
    &#167; 467. Qualifications and disqualifications of directors and committee
  members.  Every director and committee member of a credit union shall be
  the owner of at least one share subscribed for by him or standing in his
  name on the books of the credit union; and every person elected to be  a
  director   or   committee   member,   who,  after  his  election,  shall
  hypothecate, pledge or cease to be the owner of his qualifying share  or
  shares,  except as permitted by subdivision four of section four hundred
  fifty-six of this article, shall cure the disqualification within thirty
  days or thereby vacate his office, and not be eligible  for  re-election
  as a director or committee member for a period of one year from the date
  of  the  next  succeeding  annual  meeting.  The  restrictions herein of
  requiring directors and committee members to be the owner  of  at  least
  one share shall not apply to a corporate credit union.


::: 468:oaths_of_directors_officers_and_members_of_committees.html
 
    &#167;  468.  Oaths of directors, officers and members of committees.  Each
  director, officer and member of a  committee  when  first  appointed  or
  elected,  shall  take  an oath that he will, so far as the duty devolves
  upon him, diligently and honestly administer the affairs of  the  credit
  union,  and  will  not  knowingly  violate,  or  willingly  permit to be
  violated, any of the provisions of law applicable to  such  corporation,
  and  that he is the owner of at least one share subscribed for by him or
  standing in his name on the books of the credit union and that the  same
  is  not  hypothecated, or in any way pledged as security for any loan or
  debt, except as permitted by subdivision four of  section  four  hundred
  fifty-six  of this chapter.  The affirmation of share ownership need not
  be given by any director,  officer  and  member  of  a  committee  of  a
  corporate credit union.  Such oath shall be subscribed by the directors,
  officers  and  members  of  committees  making  it  and certified by any
  officer  authorized  by  law  to  administer  oaths,   and   immediately
  transmitted to the superintendent.


::: 469:vacancies_change_in_number_of_directors.html
 
    &#167;  469. Vacancies; change in number of directors.  1. Vacancies in the
  board of directors, supervisory  committee,  or  the  credit  committee,
  occasioned  by resignations, deaths or other causes shall be reported by
  each credit union to the superintendent within ten days after the event;
  and the credit union shall likewise report  the  filling  of  each  such
  vacancy  with the name, address and occupation of the person elected and
  the name of the person whose place he is to fill.
    2. The number of directors may be changed within the  limits  provided
  in subdivision four of section four hundred fifty-one of this article by
  amendment of the bylaws.


::: 470:powers_and_duties_of_directors_not_entitled_to_compensation_disqualification_of_directors.html
 
    &#167;  470.  Powers and duties of directors; not entitled to compensation;
  disqualification of directors. 1. The board of directors of every credit
  union shall have the  general  management  of  the  affairs,  funds  and
  records  of  the corporation.  No member of the board of directors shall
  receive any compensation for his services as  a  member  of  the  board.
  Whenever  the  directors  shall  deem any loan unsafe they may, in their
  discretion, require additional security to be given by the borrower, and
  if such security is not furnished as required by them, they may  declare
  the  loan  due and take action to collect the same.  Complete minutes of
  all meetings of directors shall be kept which shall include the names of
  the directors present.
    2. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of a  credit
  union  if  such person's spouse is a director or one of the five highest
  paid salaried officers of the credit  union,  if  such  person  or  such
  person's  spouse is the grandparent, parent, child, grandchild, brother,
  sister, uncle, nephew, or niece of a director or one of the five highest
  paid salaried officers of the credit union, or if a director or  one  of
  the  five  highest  paid  salaried  officers  of the credit union is the
  spouse of such person's child, grandchild, brother or sister.
    No director in office on July seventeenth, nineteen hundred eighty-six
  shall be ineligible  for  the  office  of  director  by  reason  of  the
  provisions of this subdivision.


::: 471:duty_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 471. Duty of directors and officers. 1. Directors and officers shall
  discharge  the  duties  of  their respective positions in good faith and
  with that degree of diligence, care and skill  which  a  prudent  person
  would  exercise  under  similar  circumstances  in  like  positions.  In
  discharging their duties, directors and officers, when  acting  in  good
  faith,  may  rely  (a)  upon  financial  statements  of the credit union
  represented to them to be  correct  by  the  executive  officer  or  the
  officer  of  the  credit union having charge of the books of account, or
  stated in a written report by an independent public or certified  public
  accountant  or  firm of such accountants fairly to reflect the financial
  condition of such credit union, and (b)  upon  reports  required  to  be
  submitted  to  them  by any provision of this chapter or prepared in the
  ordinary course of business by an officer or committee charged with  the
  responsibility  therefor.  Nothing  in  this  section shall be deemed to
  require the directors to perform  functions  vested  in  any  committee,
  officer  or other person pursuant to the provisions of any other section
  of this chapter.
    2. An action may be brought against one or more directors or  officers
  of a credit union to procure a judgment for the following relief:
    (a) To compel the defendant to account for his official conduct in the
  following cases:
    (i)  The  neglect of, or failure to perform, or other violation of his
  duties in the management and disposition of the  credit  union's  assets
  committed to his charge.
    (ii)  The acquisition by himself, transfer to others, loss or waste of
  the credit union's assets due to any neglect of or failure  to  perform,
  or other violation of his duties.
    (b)  To  set  aside a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the credit
  union's assets by one or more  directors  or  officers,  contrary  to  a
  provision of law, where the transferee knew the purpose of the transfer.
    (c)  To enjoin such a conveyance, assignment or transfer of the credit
  union's assets by one or more of the directors or officers  where  there
  is good reason to apprehend that it will be made.
    3.  Subject  to  section  six  hundred  thirty-one of this chapter, an
  action may be brought for the relief  provided  in  this  section  by  a
  credit union or an officer, director or judgment creditor thereof.
    4.  This  section  shall not affect any liability otherwise imposed by
  law upon any director or officer.


::: 472:special_duties_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 472. Special duties of directors.  Unless the bylaws shall expressly
  reserve any or all of the following duties to the shareholders, it shall
  be the special duty of the directors:
    1.  To  act  upon  applications  for  membership and to expel members;
  provided that the board of directors may appoint a membership  committee
  consisting  of not less than two directors, which committee may act upon
  applications for membership and approve  persons  for  membership  under
  such  conditions  as the board may prescribe; except that such committee
  so authorized shall submit to the board at each monthly meeting  a  list
  of  approved  or  pending applications for membership received since the
  previous monthly meeting, together with such other  related  information
  as the board may require.
    2.  To  fix  the amount of surety bond required of each officer having
  the control or custody of funds.
    3. To determine from time to time the rate of interest which shall  be
  allowed on deposits and charged on loans.
    4.  To  fix the maximum number and classes of shares, share drafts and
  share certificates which may be held by, and the  maximum  amount  which
  may  be  lent  to,  any  member,  subject  in each case, however, to the
  restrictions  contained  in  section  four  hundred  fifty-six  of  this
  article.
    5.  To  declare  dividends  and  authorize  an  interest refund to all
  members of record at the close of  business  on  the  last  day  of  any
  dividend  period  in  proportion to the interest paid by them during the
  dividend period.  The amount of interest refund to the members shall  be
  in proportion to the amount of interest paid by them during the dividend
  period  as  determined  by the application of a uniform percentage.  The
  board may authorize an interest refund for a dividend period only during
  a month in which, under the bylaws, it may declare a dividend  for  such
  period,  except  that  if,  under the bylaws, a credit union has for the
  calendar year dividend periods more  frequently  than  annually  and  an
  interest  refund  was  omitted for one or more of such dividend periods,
  the board, during the time permitted for the declaration of the  current
  dividend,  may  authorize  an  interest  refund for the current dividend
  period and for any one or more of the omitted dividend periods. However,
  the board shall not authorize an interest refund for any dividend period
  with respect to which it has not declared a dividend. An interest refund
  shall be recorded on the books of the credit union  as  a  reduction  of
  interest income.
    6. To recommend amendments to the bylaws.
    7.  To  fill  vacancies  in  the  board  of directors or the credit or
  supervisory committees as provided for in the bylaws.
    8. To choose a chairman and recording officer of the credit  committee
  from among the members thereof at the annual organization meeting of the
  board of directors of the credit union.
    9.  To  direct  the  deposit  or  investment of funds, except loans to
  members.
    10. To perform such other duties as the bylaws may prescribe.


::: 473:loan_officers_credit_committee_duties.html
 
    &#167;  473.  Loan  officers, credit committee; duties.   Whenever the term
  "credit  committee"  is  used  in  this  article,  it  shall  solely  be
  applicable  to  those  credit  unions  whose  bylaws  provide  for  such
  committee. The credit committee of every  credit  union  shall  meet  as
  often  as necessary, after due notice has been given to each member, for
  the purpose of passing upon applications of members for loans.  No  loan
  shall  be made unless approved by a loan officer or by a majority of the
  members of the credit committee; except the credit committee or  a  loan
  officer  may  approve  in  advance  upon  application  by  a  member, an
  extension of credit, and loans may be granted to such members within the
  limits of such extension of credit. The  loan  officers  or  the  credit
  committee   shall   be  responsible  for  reviewing  and  affirming  all
  extensions of credit and any extension of credit  shall  expire  if  the
  member  becomes  more  than ninety days delinquent in his obligations to
  the credit union.  If the credit union has shares  in  excess  of  fifty
  thousand  dollars,  the  credit  committee  may appoint one or more loan
  officers and delegate to him, her or them the  power  to  approve  loans
  within  the  limits  fixed  by  the  board of directors.   If the credit
  committee appoints one or more loan officers, not  more  than  one  loan
  officer  shall be a member of the credit committee and each loan officer
  shall report to the credit committee a record of each loan  approved  or
  disapproved  by  him,  her or them within seven days after filing of the
  loan application. All applications not approved by a loan officer  shall
  be acted upon by the credit committee.  If there is no credit committee,
  a  member  shall  have the right, upon written request, of review by the
  board of directors of a loan application which has been denied.
    In no case shall a loan officer or a member of  the  credit  committee
  serve  as  a  member  of  the supervisory committee.   No officer who is
  authorized to sign checks shall act as a loan  officer.    If  a  credit
  union  has  less than five hundred thousand dollars in assets, its board
  of directors may act as its credit committee.  The credit  committee  of
  every  credit  union  shall  keep  full  and complete minutes of all the
  business transacted at each of its meetings. Such minutes shall  include
  the names of those present at such meetings.


::: 474:loan_reports_to_directors.html
 
    &#167;  474.  Loan  reports  to  directors.  1.  The credit committee shall
  prepare and submit written reports to the  board  of  directors  of  all
  loans  approved  or  disapproved.  If  there is no credit committee, the
  board of directors shall designate, by resolution,  a  loan  officer  or
  officers  whose  duty  it  shall  be  to prepare and submit such written
  reports to the board.
    2. These written reports shall be submitted to the board of  directors
  at  every  regular  monthly  meeting  of the board. Such written reports
  shall include a detailed description of any  collateral  securing  these
  loans.
    3.  The  superintendent  may  promulgate  regulations  relating to the
  provisions of these loan reports.


::: 475:supervisory_committee_powers_and_duties.html
 
    &#167;  475.  Supervisory  committee; powers and duties. 1. The supervisory
  committee shall have power:
    (a) To suspend at any time by unanimous vote, at a meeting called  for
  that  purpose,  any  member of the credit committee or any member of the
  board of directors or any officer.
    (b) By a majority vote to  call  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  to
  consider  any  violation of this article or the bylaws, or any practices
  of the credit union which, in the opinion of the committee,  are  unsafe
  or unauthorized.
    2. It shall be the duty of the supervisory committee:
    (a)  To  inspect the securities, cash and accounts of the credit union
  and supervise the acts of its board of directors,  officers  and  credit
  committee.
    (b)  Within  fourteen  days  after the suspension of any member of the
  credit committee or any member of the board of directors or any officer,
  to cause notice of a special meeting to be given to the shareholders  to
  take any action regarding such suspension as may be deemed necessary.
    (c)  To  fill  vacancies  in  the supervisory committee until the next
  annual meeting of the  shareholders;  provided,  if  such  committee  is
  appointed  by  the  directors, it shall be the duty of the board to fill
  any such vacancies in this committee.
    (d) Once each fiscal year, at the close of any quarter  and  not  less
  than  six  months  after the date of the previous such audit, to make an
  audit of the books and records  of  the  credit  union  for  the  period
  following  the  most  recent  audit;  to  examine fully its business and
  affairs and into such other matters as the superintendent  may  require;
  upon  the  completion  of such audit and examination to make full report
  thereof in writing, and sworn to  by  each  member  of  the  supervisory
  committee, to the board of directors at their next regular meeting after
  the completion of such audit and examination, to cause such report to be
  filed  in  the  office  of  the  credit union and to give notice to each
  member of the board of directors that such report  has  been  filed,  to
  cause  a  duplicate  of  such  report  to  be filed in the office of the
  superintendent within ten days after the next  regular  meeting  of  the
  board  of  directors,  and  which report to the board of directors shall
  include  a  statement  of  the  assets  and  liabilities,  receipts  and
  disbursements  of the credit union based upon such audit and examination
  and  to  cause  such  report  to  be  read  at  the  annual  meeting  of
  shareholders and filed with the records of the credit union; and to keep
  full  and  complete  minutes  of  all business transacted at each of its
  meetings. In no case shall a member of the supervisory  committee  serve
  as  a loan officer or as a member of the credit committee or as a member
  of the board of directors. Such supervisory committee  may  employ  such
  assistance in making such examination that they may deem necessary, and,
  if  the  superintendent  shall  require,  the said supervisory committee
  shall employ the assistance of independent auditors.
    3. Any or all members of the supervisory committee may be removed  for
  cause  by  vote  of  the  shareholders  at  a regular or special meeting
  thereof, provided, however, that a written  copy  of  the  charges  made
  against  each such member shall have been served upon him personally and
  mailed to each shareholder and to the superintendent at least two  weeks
  before such meeting.


::: 476:officers_powers_and_duties.html
 
    &#167;  476.  Officers;  powers  and duties.   The powers and duties of the
  officers of any credit union shall be such  as  are  prescribed  in  the
  bylaws.


::: 477:retirement_and_insurance_benefits_for_officers_and_employees.html
 
    &#167;  477.  Retirement and insurance benefits for officers and employees.
  1.   Subject to such regulations  as  the  superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  prescribe,  a  credit  union  may, in the discretion of a
  majority of  all  the  board  of  directors,  provide  to  officers  and
  employees  retirement benefits, deferred compensation programs and other
  employee benefit plans.
    2. A credit union investing to fund  a  retirement  benefit,  deferred
  compensation  program  or  other  benefit  plan  for  its  officers  and
  employees  shall  not  be  subject  to  or  limited  by  the  investment
  provisions  set  forth  in  subdivision eighteen of section four hundred
  fifty-four of this article so long as the investment is directly related
  to  the  benefit  plan,  and  any  obligation  or  potential  obligation
  thereunder,  and the credit union holds the investment for as long as it
  provides such benefit plan or has any  actual  or  potential  obligation
  thereunder.


::: 478:amendment_of_bylaws_approval_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167;  478. Amendment of bylaws; approval of superintendent. 1. The bylaws
  of a credit union may be changed or amended by a vote of a  majority  of
  the  total  number of directors which a credit union would have if there
  were no vacancies present at any meeting; provided the  proposed  change
  or  amendment  shall  have first had the approval of the superintendent,
  except as provided in subdivision two  of  this  section;  and  provided
  further, that notice of such meeting, with notice of the proposed change
  or  amendment,  shall  have been given to each director as prescribed in
  the bylaws and provided, further, that any amendment,  or  change  in  a
  bylaw  affecting  the  manner or method by which a shareholders' meeting
  may be convened, the voting rights of the shareholders, or a decrease in
  the number of directors of the  credit  union  shall  also  require  the
  approval  of  a majority of the shareholders present at a meeting of the
  shareholders. A copy of any change or amendment thus  adopted  shall  be
  filed  in  the office of the superintendent within thirty days after its
  adoption.
    2. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision one of this  section,
  a  credit  union  may  change or amend its bylaws to add a group of less
  than three thousand members upon receiving a notice of no objection from
  the superintendent. Within ten business days of receiving such  proposed
  change or amendment, the superintendent shall either send a notice of no
  objection, notify the credit union that the proposed change or amendment
  is  denied,  or  notify  the  credit  union  that  additional  review is
  necessary; provided, however, that if additional  review  is  necessary,
  the  superintendent  shall  notify  the credit union of his or her final
  decision within no more than twenty-five business days of receiving such
  proposed change or amendment.
    3. Any credit union deeming itself aggrieved by  the  refusal  of  the
  superintendent  to  give  his  or  her  approval to a proposed change or
  amendment may apply to any justice of the supreme court of the  district
  wherein  the credit union is located, upon notice to the superintendent,
  for a review of such decision. Such justice shall review the decision of
  the superintendent and may overrule or  set  aside  the  action  of  the
  superintendent  and  approve  such change or amendment. An approval thus
  obtained shall enable such credit union to make the change or  amendment
  as approved.


::: 479:credit_union_not_liable_for_taxation.html
 
    &#167; 479. Credit union not liable for taxation.  Any credit union subject
  to  the  provisions  of  this article shall be deemed an institution for
  savings within the meaning of the law which  exempts  such  institutions
  from  taxation.  No  law  which  taxes  corporations in any form, or the
  shares thereof or the accumulations therein, shall apply to corporations
  doing business in accordance with the provisions of this article, unless
  such corporations are specifically named in said law.


::: 480:fiscal_year.html
 
    &#167;  480.  Fiscal year.  The fiscal year of every credit union shall end
  at the close of business on the thirty-first day of December.


::: 481:communications_from_department_of_financial_services_must_be_submitted_to_directors_and_supervisory_committee_and_noted_in_the_minutes.html
 
    &#167;  481.  Communications  from department of financial services must be
  submitted to directors and  supervisory  committee,  and  noted  in  the
  minutes.  Every official communication as defined in article two of this
  chapter directed to a credit union shall be submitted to both the  board
  of  directors  and the supervisory committee at the next meeting of each
  such board or committee and duly noted in the minutes of the meeting  of
  such board or committee.


::: 482:reports_to_superintendent_penalty_for_failure_to_make.html
 
    &#167;  482.  Reports  to  superintendent;  penalty for failure to make. 1.
  Credit unions shall forward to the superintendent all  reports  required
  by the National Credit Union Administration.
    2.  Every  credit  union shall also make such other special reports to
  the superintendent at such times as he may require, which reports  shall
  be in the form and filed on the date prescribed by the superintendent.
    3.  If any credit union shall fail to make any report required by this
  section on or before the day designated for the making thereof, or shall
  fail to include therein any information required by  the  superintendent
  to  be  included,  such  credit union shall forfeit to the people of the
  state an amount as determined pursuant to section forty-four-a  of  this
  chapter for every day that such report shall be delayed or withheld, and
  for every day that it shall fail to report any such omitted information,
  unless the time therefor shall have been extended by the superintendent.


::: 483:penalty_for_loans_to_nonmembers_recovery.html
 
    &#167;  483.  Penalty  for  loans  to  non-members;  recovery. Any officer,
  director or member of a  committee  of  a  credit  union  who  knowingly
  permits  a  loan to be made or participates in a loan to a non-member of
  the corporation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be  primarily
  liable  to the corporation for the amount thus illegally loaned, and the
  illegality of such a loan shall be no  defense  in  any  action  by  the
  corporation to recover the amount lent.


::: 484:penality_for_use_of_term_credit_union.html
 
    &#167;  484. Penalty for use of term "credit union". The use by any person,
  partnership, association or corporation, other than those authorized  as
  provided  in  this  article,  or  by any federal law, and other than any
  statewide association of credit unions operating in this state,  of  any
  name or title which contains the two words "credit" and "union" shall be
  a misdemeanor.


::: 485:entries_in_books_preservation_of_records.html
 
    &#167;  485.  Entries in books; preservation of records. 1. No credit union
  shall by any system of accounting or any device of bookkeeping, directly
  or indirectly, enter any of its assets or liabilities upon its books  in
  the  name  of  any person, or under any title or designation that is not
  truly descriptive thereof.
    2. Every credit union shall preserve all of its  records  of  original
  and  final  entry,  including  cancelled  checks,  withdrawal  slips and
  deposit tickets, for a period of at least six years  from  the  date  of
  making  same  or  from  the  date  of  the last entry thereon; provided,
  however, that  preservation  of  photographic  reproduction  thereof  or
  records  in  photographic  form  shall  constitute  compliance  with the
  requirements of this section.


::: 486-a:retention_of_special_additional_mortgage_recording_tax_exemption_for_converted_federal_credit_unions.html
 
    &#167;  486-a.  Retention  of  special  additional  mortgage  recording tax
  exemption for converted federal  credit  unions.  Mortgages  made  by  a
  credit  union  that  is  issued an authorization certificate on or after
  January first, two  thousand  nine  pursuant  to  section  four  hundred
  eighty-six  of  this article shall be exempt from the special additional
  mortgage tax imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of subdivision  one-a  of
  section two hundred fifty-three of the tax law.


::: 486:conversion_of_a_federal_credit_union_into_a_state_credit_union.html
 
    &#167; 486. Conversion of a federal credit union into a state credit union.
  Any  federal credit union having its place of business in this state may
  convert itself into a state credit union. A meeting of the  shareholders
  shall  be  held  upon  not  less  than  ten days' written notice to each
  shareholder, either served personally or mailed to him or her at his  or
  her last known address and containing a statement of the time, place and
  purpose  of such meeting, provided that if the laws of the United States
  prescribe a different period of time or manner of  communicating  notice
  to each shareholder, then a meeting of the shareholders shall be held in
  conformity  with  such  laws.  Proof by affidavit of due service of such
  notice shall be filed in the office of the credit union before or at the
  time of such meeting.
    At such meeting, a majority of the  shareholders  represented  at  the
  meeting  may,  by  an affirmative vote, in person or by proxy, authorize
  the conversion of such  federal  credit  union  into  a  state-chartered
  credit  union,  provided that in the event the laws of the United States
  require a different affirmative vote, such vote shall apply in  lieu  of
  the  affirmative  vote  required  hereby.  A copy of the minutes of such
  meeting, certified by the presiding officer and by the secretary of  the
  meeting,  shall  be  filed  in  the  office of the superintendent within
  thirty days after the date of such meeting.
    There shall be filed with such copy of the  minutes  the  organization
  certificate  required  by  section  four  hundred fifty of this article,
  executed by a majority of the directors, and proposed bylaws as required
  by section four hundred fifty-one of this article.  The  federal  credit
  union   shall   also   submit  a  written  plan  of  conversion  to  the
  superintendent, together with an investigation fee as described pursuant
  to section eighteen-a of this chapter.
    Within sixty days after  such  filing,  or  such  later  date  as  the
  superintendent in his discretion may determine, the federal credit union
  shall take the action prescribed or authorized by the laws of the United
  States  to  effect such conversion and there shall thereupon be filed in
  the office of the superintendent a copy of any consent or  authorization
  required of such federal credit union pursuant to the laws of the United
  States and the state to effect such conversion.
    When   the   superintendent   shall  have  approved  the  organization
  certificate  and  the  proposed  bylaws  and  shall  have   issued   the
  authorization  certificate,  as provided in article two of this chapter,
  the credit union shall cease to be a  federal  credit  union  and  shall
  thereupon  be  converted  into  a  state  credit union, but such federal
  credit union shall  be  deemed  to  be  continued  for  the  purpose  of
  prosecuting or defending suits and of enabling it to wind up its affairs
  as a federal credit union and to dispose of and convey its property.
    At  the  time when such conversion becomes effective, all the property
  of the federal credit union shall immediately by act of law and  without
  any  conveyance  or  transfer become the property of the state-chartered
  credit union and the state-chartered credit union shall succeed  to  all
  the rights, obligations and relations of the federal credit union.


::: 487-a:conversion_of_a_credit_union_into_a_mutual_savings_bank.html
 
    &#167;  487-a.  Conversion of a credit union into a mutual savings bank. 1.
  Any credit union having its place of business in this state may  convert
  to a mutual savings bank, subject to the requirements and procedures set
  forth in the laws and regulations governing mutual savings banks.
    2.  A  proposal for a conversion described in this section shall first
  be approved, and a date set for a vote thereon by the members (either at
  a meeting to be held on that date or by written ballot to be filed on or
  before that date), by a majority of the directors of the  credit  union.
  Approval of the proposal for conversion shall be by the affirmative vote
  of  a  majority  of  the  members  of  the  credit union who vote on the
  proposal.
    3. A credit union that proposes to convert to a  mutual  savings  bank
  under  this  section  shall  submit notice to each of its members who is
  eligible to vote on the matter of its intent  to  convert.  Such  notice
  must  adequately  describe the purpose and subject matter of the vote to
  be taken at the meeting or by  submission  of  a  written  ballot.  Such
  notice shall be submitted:
    a. ninety days before the date of the member vote on the conversion;
    b.  sixty  days  before the date of the member vote on the conversion;
  and
    c. thirty days before the date of the member vote on  the  conversion.
  The  notice  submitted thirty days before the date of the member vote on
  the conversion shall contain a written ballot, and shall clearly  inform
  the  member that the member may vote at the meeting or by submitting the
  written ballot. Such notice also shall state the date, time and place of
  the meeting.
    4. The superintendent shall require a credit union  that  proposes  to
  convert  to  a mutual savings bank under this section to submit a notice
  to the superintendent of its intent to  convert  during  the  ninety-day
  period   preceding  the  date  of  the  completion  of  the  conversion,
  accompanied by an investigation fee as prescribed  pursuant  to  section
  eighteen-a of this chapter.
    5.  No  director  or  senior management official of a credit union may
  receive any economic benefit in connection  with  a  conversion  of  the
  credit union as described in this section, other than:
    a. director fees; and
    b.  compensation  and  other  benefits  paid  to  directors  or senior
  management officials of the converted institution in the ordinary course
  of business.
    c. For purposes of  this  subdivision,  the  term  "senior  management
  official"  means a chief executive officer, an assistant chief executive
  officer, a chief financial  officer,  and  any  other  senior  executive
  officer as defined by the appropriate federal banking agency pursuant to
  section 32(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1831i(f).
    6.  The  member  vote concerning charter conversion under this section
  shall  be  verified  by  the  superintendent.  If   the   superintendent
  disapproves  of  the  methods  by  which  the  member  vote was taken or
  procedures applicable to the member vote, the member vote shall be taken
  again, as directed by the superintendent.
    7. Upon completion of a conversion  described  in  this  section,  the
  credit union shall no longer be subject to any of the provisions of this
  article.
    When   the   superintendent   shall  have  approved  the  organization
  certificate  and  the  proposed  bylaws  and  shall  have   issued   the
  authorization  certificate,  as provided in article six of this chapter,
  the credit union shall cease to be a credit union and shall thereupon be
  converted into a mutual  savings  bank;  provided,  however,  that  such
  credit  union  shall  be  deemed  to  be  continued  for  the purpose of
  prosecuting or defending suits and of enabling it to wind up its affairs
  as a credit union and to dispose of and convey its property.
    At  the  time when such conversion becomes effective, all the property
  of the credit union shall immediately by act  of  law  and  without  any
  conveyance  or  transfer  become the property of the mutual savings bank
  and the mutual savings bank shall succeed to all the rights, obligations
  and relations of the credit union.


::: 487:conversion_of_a_credit_union_into_a_federal_credit_union.html
 
    &#167;  487.  Conversion of a credit union into a federal credit union. Any
  credit union may convert itself into a federal credit union.  A  meeting
  of the shareholders of the credit union shall be held upon not less than
  ten  days'  written notice to each shareholder, either served personally
  or mailed to him or her at his or her last known address and  containing
  a  statement  of  the  time, place and purpose of such meeting. Proof by
  affidavit of due service of such notice shall be filed in the office  of
  the credit union before or at the time of such meeting.
    At  such  meeting,  a  majority of the shareholders represented at the
  meeting may, by an affirmative vote in person or by proxy, authorize the
  conversion of such credit union into a federal credit union. A  copy  of
  the  minutes  of such meeting, certified by the presiding officer and by
  the secretary of the meeting, shall  be  filed  in  the  office  of  the
  superintendent within two days thereafter.
    Within  sixty  days after the date of such meeting, or such later date
  as the superintendent in his discretion may determine, the credit  union
  shall  take  such  action, in the manner prescribed or authorized by the
  laws of the United States, as shall make it a federal credit  union  and
  shall  thereupon  file in the office of the superintendent a copy of the
  charter or authorization issued to it. Upon such filing the credit union
  shall cease to be a corporation under the laws  of  this  state,  except
  that   its  corporate  existence  shall  continue  for  the  purpose  of
  prosecuting or defending suits and of enabling it to wind up its affairs
  as a state credit union and to dispose of and convey  its  property.  At
  the  time when such conversion becomes effective, all of the property of
  the state credit union shall immediately by act of law and  without  any
  conveyance  or  transfer become the property of the federal credit union
  and the federal credit union shall thereupon succeed to all the  rights,
  obligations and relations of the state credit union.


::: 490-a:creation_of_fund.html
 
    &#167;  490-a.  Creation of fund. Any fifty or more credit unions organized
  under the provisions of this chapter whose share  liabilities  aggregate
  not  less  than  fifty  per centum of the total share liabilities of all
  credit unions so organized may enter into an agreement, subject  to  the
  approval  of  the superintendent, to create a fund and from time to time
  make  contributions  thereto  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  such
  agreement,  for the purpose of insuring the shares of such credit unions
  as shall become parties to such agreement; provided, however,  that  the
  shares  so  insured  of any one holder in any one credit union shall not
  exceed two thousand dollars. Such an agreement once entered into may  be
  continued,  notwithstanding the fact that any number of associations may
  cease to be parties thereto.


::: 490-b:management_of_fund.html
 
    &#167;  490-b.  Management  of  fund.  The  fund  shall be collected, held,
  administered and disbursed by a corporate trustee or a board of trustees
  composed of individuals who are directors or members  of  a  supervisory
  committee  of credit unions. The appointment of a corporate trustee or a
  board of trustees, as the case may be, shall be subject to the  approval
  of  the  superintendent.  In  the  event  there be a board of individual
  trustees, a majority of them at any time in office, shall  constitute  a
  quorum  and  the  vote  of a majority present at any meeting, provided a
  quorum is present, shall be determinative.


::: 490-c:execution_and_filing_of_agreement.html
 
    &#167;  490-c.  Execution  and  filing  of  agreement.  The  agreement when
  approved by  the  superintendent  and  executed  by  the  credit  unions
  desiring  to  become parties thereto shall be filed in the office of the
  superintendent and shall thereupon become effective. The  agreement  may
  be executed in any number of counterparts.


::: 490-d:provisions_of_agreement.html
 
    &#167;  490-d. Provisions of agreement. The agreement shall provide for the
  following: (a) The designation of a corporate  trustee  or  a  board  of
  trustees  to  administer  the  fund and procedure for the resignation or
  removal of any such trustee or trustees  and  for  the  selection  of  a
  substitute trustee or trustees;
    (b) The amount of the initial contribution to the fund, which shall be
  made  by  all  parties  to  the agreement ratably in proportion to their
  respective share and deposit liabilities, and which shall  be  not  less
  than  one-fourth  of  one  per  centum  of  the  total share and deposit
  liabilities, of each such party;
    (c) The manner of making subsequent  calls  for  contributions,  which
  shall be made ratably upon all parties to the agreement in proportion to
  their   respective  share  and  deposit  liabilities,  except  that  the
  superintendent, where he deems it necessary and  advisable,  may  exempt
  any such party or parties from any such call in whole or in part;
    (d)  Procedure for amendment of such agreement and its termination and
  liquidation of the fund;
    (e) The powers to be vested in  the  corporate  trustee  or  board  of
  trustees,  as the case may be, and the manner in which such powers shall
  be exercised;
    (f) The distribution of any earnings  realized  from  the  fund  which
  distribution  shall  be  made  only  with  the  written  consent  of the
  superintendent;
    (g) The method of determining from time to  time  the  amount  of  the
  share   and  deposit  liabilities  of  the  respective  parties  to  the
  agreement;
    (h) The requirements to be complied with by a party to  the  agreement
  desiring  to  withdraw  therefrom prior to its termination, provided the
  contributions to the fund theretofore made  by  such  withdrawing  party
  shall not be returned but shall remain the property of the fund.


::: 490-e:powers_and_duties_of_trustee_or_trustees.html
 
    &#167;  490-e.  Powers  and  duties of trustee or trustees. It shall be the
  duty of the corporate trustee or the board of trustees, as the case  may
  be, to collect the initial contribution to the fund, to call for, and to
  collect by legal proceedings if necessary, such subsequent contributions
  as  become  payable  under the terms of the agreement, and to administer
  the fund so created in accordance with the terms of the agreement.  Such
  part  of  the  fund as is not required to be kept on hand or in bank for
  the purpose of meeting and satisfying demands made by the superintendent
  pursuant to the next succeeding section, may be invested in  obligations
  of  the United States and of the state of New York, and of any county or
  municipality of the state of New York.


::: 490-f:powers_of_superintendent_to_obtain_payment_from_fund.html
 
    &#167;  490-f. Powers of superintendent to obtain payment from fund. In any
  case where the superintendent has taken possession of any party  to  the
  agreement  and has been engaged in the liquidation thereof for one year,
  he may demand of the trustee or trustees payment to him from the fund of
  such sum as shall be necessary to  enable  him  to  pay  a  dividend  on
  account  of  insured  shares  which  taken  together  with any dividends
  previously paid on account thereof will equal fifty per  centum  of  the
  established  insured claim of shareholders. At the end of two years from
  the date upon which the superintendent took possession of any such party
  to the agreement he may demand of the trustee or trustees payment to him
  from the fund of such additional sum as shall be necessary to enable him
  to pay a dividend on account of insured shares which taken together with
  dividends previously paid on account thereof  shall  equal  seventy-five
  per  centum  of  such established insured claims of shareholders. At the
  end of three years from the date  upon  which  the  superintendent  took
  possession of any party to the agreement he may demand of the trustee or
  trustees payment to him from the fund of such additional sum as shall be
  necessary  to  enable  him to pay the unpaid balance of such established
  insured  claims  of  shareholders.  Any   payments   demanded   by   the
  superintendent  shall  be  paid  to  him from the fund by the trustee or
  trustees within thirty days of the date of such demand. Any sum realized
  by the superintendent from the liquidation of any party to the agreement
  after shareholders have been paid in full, shall be paid by him  to  the
  trustee  or  trustees  of the fund to the extent of the aggregate of the
  sums paid by the trustee or trustees to  the  superintendent  under  the
  provisions of this section.


::: 490-g:payment_of_liquidating_dividends_on_uninsured_shares.html
 
    &#167;  490-g. Payment of liquidating dividends on uninsured shares. In the
  event of liquidation by the superintendent of any credit union which  is
  a party to the agreement, he shall pay on account of its uninsured share
  liabilities  and  deposit  liabilities, dividends in the same manner and
  amount as he  would  pay  on  account  thereof  if  none  of  the  share
  liabilities of such credit union were insured.


::: 490-h:exemption_of_fund_from_taxation.html
 
    &#167; 490-h.  Exemption  of  fund  from taxation. The fund provided for by
  this article and the income thereof shall be exempt  from  all  taxation
  now  or  hereafter  imposed  by  the state of New York or by any county,
  municipality or local authority or subdivision.


::: 490-i:liability_for_payment_of_contributions.html
 
    &#167; 490-i.  Liability  for  payment  of  contributions. Any credit union
  which is a party to the agreement provided for by this article shall  be
  liable  for the payment of any contribution called for by the trustee or
  trustees pursuant to such agreement in the same manner as  it  would  be
  liable for the payment of a debt otherwise contracted.


::: 490-j:powers_of_credit_unions_with_respect_to_agreement.html
 
    &#167; 490-j. Powers of credit unions with respect to agreement. Any credit
  union  organized  under  the  provisions  of this chapter shall have the
  power to become a party to the agreement provided for by  this  article,
  and  to  take  all  actions  authorized or required by the terms of such
  agreement and to pay all contributions provided for  therein.  Any  such
  contributions  paid  into the fund by any party to such agreement may be
  carried on its books by such party as an asset to the extent  authorized
  by the superintendent.


::: 491:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 491.  Definitions.  In  this  article, unless the context or subject
  matter otherwise requires:
    1. "Goods" means all chattels personal, but not  including  money  and
  things in action.
    2. "Motor vehicle" or "vehicle" means any device propelled or drawn by
  any  power  other  than  muscular  power, upon or by which any person or
  property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public  highway,  road
  or street. Unless otherwise specified, "motor vehicle" or "vehicle" also
  means   a  "mobile  home"  or  "manufactured  home".  "Mobile  home"  or
  "manufactured home" means a structure,  transportable  in  one  or  more
  sections,  which  in  the  traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in
  width or forty body feet or more in length, or when erected on site,  is
  three  hundred  twenty  or  more  square  feet,  and which is built on a
  permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or  without
  a  permanent  foundation  when  connected  to  required  utilities,  and
  includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical  systems
  contained therein.
    3.  "Instalment buyer" or "buyer" or "retail buyer" means a person who
  buys goods from a retail seller and who  executes  a  retail  instalment
  contract in connection therewith.
    4.  "Instalment  seller" or "seller" or "retail seller" means a person
  who sells goods  to  a  retail  buyer  under  or  subject  to  a  retail
  instalment contract.
    5.  "Retail  instalment sale" or "sale" means a sale, other than for a
  commercial or business use or for the purpose of resale, of goods  by  a
  retail  seller to a retail buyer for a time sale price payable in two or
  more instalments, payment of which is secured  by  a  retail  instalment
  contract.
    6.  "Retail  instalment  contract"  or  "contract" means an agreement,
  entered into in this state, pursuant to which the title to, the property
  or a security interest in or a  lien  upon  the  goods,  which  are  the
  subject  matter  of  a retail instalment sale, is retained or taken by a
  retail seller from a retail buyer as security, in whole or in part,  for
  the  buyer's  obligation.  The  term includes such an agreement wherever
  entered into if executed by the buyer in this state and if solicited  in
  person by a salesman or other person acting on his own behalf or that of
  the  seller.  The  term  also  includes  a  contract  whereby a security
  interest in favor of the seller is created or retained  and  a  contract
  for  the  bailment  or  leasing  of  goods by which the bailee or lessee
  contracts to pay as compensation  for  their  use  a  sum  substantially
  equivalent to or in excess of their value and by which it is agreed that
  the  bailee  or  lessee  is  bound  to  become, or for no other or for a
  nominal consideration has the option of becoming, the owner of the goods
  upon full compliance with the terms of the contract.
    6-a.  "Retail  instalment  obligation"  or   "obligation"   means   an
  agreement,  entered  into  in  this  state,  pursuant to which the buyer
  promises to pay, in instalments, the time sale price or prices of  goods
  and/or  services,  or  any part thereof. The term does not include (a) a
  retail instalment contract, (b) a retail instalment credit agreement  or
  (c)  an  obligation which is intended to be and is ultimately insured or
  guaranteed  under  title  three  of  the  act   of   Congress   entitled
  "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944".
    6-b.  "Retail instalment credit agreement" or "credit agreement" means
  an agreement entered into in this state, pursuant  to  which  the  buyer
  promises  to pay, in instalments, his outstanding indebtedness from time
  to time to a  retail  seller,  not  evidenced  by  a  retail  instalment
  contract  or  obligation,  for  one  or more items of goods or services,
  whenever purchased or obtained, which provides for a service charge  and
  under  which  instalment  payments apply to his outstanding indebtedness
  from time to time.
    7.  "Sales  finance  company"  means  a person engaged, in whole or in
  part, directly or indirectly, in the business of purchasing or otherwise
  acquiring retail instalment contracts, obligations or credit  agreements
  made  by  and  between  other parties, or any interest therein. The term
  includes a retail seller of motor vehicles engaged, in whole or in part,
  in the business of holding retail  instalment  contracts  acquired  from
  retail  buyers, which have aggregate unpaid time balances of twenty-five
  thousand dollars or  more  at  any  one  time,  exclusive  of  contracts
  repurchased  from  a sales finance company or financing agency, under an
  agreement to repurchase in case of default entered into as  an  incident
  to  the  bona  fide sale thereof to a sales finance company or financing
  agency. The term does not include the pledgee of an aggregate number  of
  contracts to secure a bona fide loan thereon. The term includes a person
  engaged, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, in the business of
  entering  into  retail  instalment  credit agreements with retail buyers
  pursuant to subdivision eleven of section four hundred thirteen  of  the
  personal property law.
    8. "Superintendent" means the superintendent of financial services.
    9. "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association
  or other group, however organized.
    10. Words in the singular include the plural and vice versa.


::: 492-a:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 492-a.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a change of control of the business of a licensee. Prior to
  any change of control, the person desirous of acquiring control  of  the
  business   of   a   licensee  shall  make  written  application  to  the
  superintendent and pay an investigation fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section   eighteen-a   of   this  chapter  to  the  superintendent.  The
  application shall contain such information  as  the  superintendent,  by
  rule  or  regulation,  may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the
  purpose of making the determination required by subdivision two of  this
  section.
    2.  The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the proposed change
  of  control  of  a  licensee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions   of
  subdivision  one  of  section four hundred ninety-three of this article.
  The superintendent  shall  approve  or  disapprove  the  application  in
  writing  within ninety days after the date the application is filed with
  the superintendent.
    3. For a period of six months from the date of  qualification  thereof
  and  for  such  additional  period  of  time  as  the superintendent may
  prescribe, in writing, the provisions of subdivisions  one  and  two  of
  this  section  shall  not apply to a transfer of control by operation of
  law to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who  has
  control  of  a  licensee.  Thereafter,  such  legal representative shall
  comply with the provisions of subdivisions one and two of this  section.
  The  provisions  of  subdivisions  one  and two of this section shall be
  applicable to  an  application  made  under  such  section  by  a  legal
  representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative",  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4. As used  in  this  section:  (a)  the  term  "person"  includes  an
  individual,   partnership,   corporation,   association   or  any  other
  organization, and (b) the term "control" means the possession,  directly
  or  indirectly,  of  the  power  to direct or cause the direction of the
  management and policies of a licensee, whether through the ownership  of
  voting  stock  of  such  licensee,  the ownership of voting stock of any
  person which  possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.  Control  shall  be
  presumed  to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls
  or holds with power to vote ten per centum or more of the  voting  stock
  of  any  licensee  or  of  any person which owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote ten per  centum  or  more  of  the  voting  stock  of  any
  licensee,  but no person shall be deemed to control a licensee solely by
  reason of being an officer or director of such licensee or  person.  The
  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application of a licensee
  or  any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote or seeks to own, control or hold with power  to  vote  any
  voting  stock  of such licensee, determine whether or not the ownership,
  control or holding of such voting stock constitutes or would  constitute
  control of such licensee for purposes of this section.


::: 492:license.html
 
    &#167; 492. License. 1. No person, except a bank, savings bank, savings and
  loan   association,   trust   company,  private  banker,  credit  union,
  investment company organized under article twelve of  this  chapter  and
  authorized   to   accept   deposits,   national  bank,  federal  savings
  association, federal credit union, or out-of-state state bank,  as  such
  term  is defined in subdivision two of section two hundred twenty-two of
  this chapter, or lender  licensed  pursuant  to  article  nine  of  this
  chapter, shall engage in the business of a sales finance company in this
  state  without  a  license therefor obtained from the superintendent, as
  provided in this article.
    1-a. Subdivision one of this section does not  apply  to  corporations
  subject  to  the  insurance  law  and  corporations  and private bankers
  subject to the banking law in exercising the powers granted to  them  by
  chapter  eight  hundred  ninety-seven  of  the  laws of nineteen hundred
  thirty-four as heretofore or hereafter enacted.
    2. Application for a license required under this article shall  be  in
  writing,  under  oath, and in the form prescribed by the superintendent,
  and shall contain the following:
    (a) The exact name of the applicant  and  date  of  incorporation,  if
  incorporated;
    (b)  The  complete  address  where  the  business  is to be conducted,
  showing the street and number, if any,  the  office  building  and  room
  number, if any, and the municipality and county;
    (c)  If  the  applicant  has  one  or  more  branches, subsidiaries or
  affiliates operating in this state, the complete address  of  each  such
  place of business; and
    (d)  The  name  and  resident  address of the owner or partners of the
  applicant or,  if  a  corporation  or  association,  of  the  directors,
  trustees  and  principal  officers, and of any stockholder owning twenty
  per centum or more of its stock; and
    (e)  Such  other  pertinent  information  as  the  superintendent  may
  require.
    3.  Where  an  applicant operates several places of business, separate
  applications for license shall be made for each such place of business.
    4. At the time of filing an application  for  license,  the  applicant
  shall pay to the superintendent an investigation fee.
    The  investigation  fee  shall  be  as  prescribed pursuant to section
  eighteen-a of  this  chapter,  except  that,  when  an  applicant  files
  applications  for  licenses  for three or more places of business at the
  same time, the total investigation fee for all the applications shall be
  three times the amount as prescribed pursuant to section  eighteen-a  of
  this chapter.


::: 493:action_by_superintendent_on_application.html
 
    &#167; 493.  Action by superintendent on application. 1. Upon the filing of
  an application for a sales finance company's license, and the payment of
  the fees for license and investigation, the superintendent
    (a) May refuse to issue the license if he finds that the applicant, or
  any person who at the time of  filing  such  application  is  an  owner,
  director,  officer,  member,  partner, employee, agent, or spouse of the
  applicant, has duly suffered a revocation of license under this article,
  or has been found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this
  article,  or  of  any  other  law  regulating  retail  instalment  sales
  contracts, obligations or credit agreements, or has been responsible for
  any  act or omission in consequence of which a license issued under this
  article to any person was duly revoked. The superintendent may  likewise
  refuse  to  issue  the  license  if  he  shall find that the experience,
  character and general fitness of  the  applicant  are  not  such  as  to
  command  the  confidence of the community and to warrant the belief that
  the business will be conducted honestly and fairly within  the  purposes
  and  intent  of  this  article. For the purpose of this subdivision, the
  applicant shall be deemed to include all the members of the applicant if
  it  is  a  partnership  or  unincorporated  association,  and  all   the
  stockholders,  officers  and  directors  of  the  applicant  if  it is a
  corporation; or
    (b) Shall issue and deliver to the applicant a license  to  engage  in
  business as a sales finance company in accordance with the provisions of
  this article at the location specified in said application.
    2. The superintendent shall approve or deny every original application
  for  a license hereunder within ninety days from the filing thereof with
  the said fees.
    3. If the superintendent refuses to issue a license, he
    (a) Shall notify the applicant of the denial, return the sum  paid  by
  the  applicant  as  a  license  fee, but retain the investigation fee to
  cover the costs of investigating the applicant; and
    (b) Within twenty days thereafter shall file a  written  decision  and
  findings  containing  the  reasons  supporting  the  denial,  and  shall
  forthwith serve a copy thereof upon the applicant.
    4. Each license issued hereunder shall remain in full force and effect
  until it is surrendered by the  licensee  or  revoked  or  suspended  as
  provided in this article.
    5.  Only  one  place of business may be maintained under each license,
  but more than one license may be issued to the same licensee pursuant to
  this article.
    6. No county, city, or other political subdivision of this  state  may
  require a licensee under this article to obtain a local license or pay a
  local  fee  for  the  privilege of engaging therein in the business of a
  sales finance company.
    7. Any sales finance company in business on the date  this  act  takes
  effect  may  continue  in operation but must obtain a license within six
  months from said date in accordance with the provisions of this article.


::: 494:license_form_posting_limitations.html
 
    &#167; 494.  License  form;  posting;  limitations.  1. Each license issued
  under this article  shall  state  the  address  at  which  the  licensed
  business  is  to  be  conducted  and  shall  state fully the name of the
  licensee and, if the licensee is a  copartnership  or  association,  the
  names  of  the members thereof, and if a corporation, the date and place
  of its incorporation and the address of its principal place of business.
  Such license shall  be  kept  conspicuously  posted  in  the  licensee's
  specified place of business and shall not be transferable or assignable.
    2.  Whenever  any  licensee hereunder changes its place of business to
  another location, it shall give immediate written notice thereof to  the
  superintendent,  who  shall  without  charge  attach  to  the license or
  endorse on it in writing a record of the change and  the  date  thereof,
  which  shall  be  authority for the operation of the business under such
  license at such new location.
    3. No person, except a licensee, may make any representation, directly
  or indirectly, orally or in writing, that  he  is  licensed  under  this
  article,  and  a  licensee  may  make  such  a  representation  only  in
  connection with the licensee's business as a sales finance  company  and
  in accordance with any rules and regulations of the superintendent.


::: 495:revocation_suspension_or_surrender_of_licenses.html
 
    &#167; 495.  Revocation,  suspension  or  surrender  of  licenses.  1.  The
  superintendent may suspend or  revoke  any  license  issued  under  this
  article, if he shall find that:
    (a)  the  licensee,  knowingly  or without the exercise of due care to
  prevent such violation, has violated any provision of this article,  the
  act  of  congress  entitled  "Truth  in Lending Act" and the regulations
  thereunder, as such act  and  regulations  may  from  time  to  time  be
  amended,  or of any other law regulating instalment sales agreements, or
  has failed to comply with any demand, or requirement, lawfully  made  by
  the superintendent under and within the authority of this article; or
    (b) there has been any material misstatement or failure to give a true
  reply to a question in the application for the license; or
    (c) the licensee has defrauded any retail buyer to the buyer's damage;
  or  wilfully  failed  to  perform  any written agreement with any retail
  buyer; or
    (d) Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the  time
  of  the  original  application  for  such  license,  clearly  would have
  warranted the superintendent of financial services in refusing to  issue
  such license originally.
    (e) in the case of a licensee other than a natural person.
    (1)  any  officer,  director, trustee, or partner of such licensee has
  been guilty of any act or omission which would be cause for revoking  or
  suspending a license of such party as an individual; or
    (2)  any  other  agent or employee of such licensee has been guilty of
  such act or omission and the licensee  has  approved  or  had  knowledge
  thereof or of acts or omission of like character and after such approval
  or knowledge has retained the benefit, proceeds, profit, or advantage of
  such act or omission or otherwise ratified it.
    2.  No  license  shall  be suspended or revoked except after a hearing
  thereon. The superintendent shall give the licensee at least  ten  days'
  written  notice of the time and place of such hearing by registered mail
  addressed to the principal place of  business  in  this  state  of  such
  licensee. Any order suspending or revoking such license shall recite the
  grounds upon which it is based and shall not be effective until ten days
  after  written  notice  thereof  has been sent by registered mail to the
  licensee at such principal place of business.
    3. The superintendent in his discretion may revoke or suspend only the
  particular license with respect  to  which  grounds  for  revocation  or
  suspension  may  occur  or  exist;  but  if  he  finds  that grounds for
  revocation or suspension are of general application  to  all  places  of
  business,  or  to  more  than  one  place  of business, operated by such
  licensee, he shall revoke or suspend all of the licenses issued to  said
  licensee  or  those  licenses  to  which  the  grounds for revocation or
  suspension apply, as the case may be.
    4. Any licensee  may  surrender  any  license  by  delivering  to  the
  superintendent  written notice that such license is thereby surrendered,
  but such surrender shall not affect the  licensee's  civil  or  criminal
  liability for acts committed prior thereto.
    5.  No suspension, revocation or surrender of any license shall impair
  or affect the obligation  of  any  instalment  contract,  obligation  or
  credit agreement lawfully acquired previously thereto by the licensee.
    6.  The  superintendent  shall  establish  rules  as  to  the  form of
  hearings, findings, and orders which shall  be  reasonable  and  in  the
  public interest.
    7.  The  superintendent  may, on good cause shown, or where there is a
  substantial risk of public harm, suspend any license issued pursuant  to
  this   article   for   a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  days,  pending
  investigation. "Good cause", as used in this  subdivision,  shall  exist
  only  when  the  licensee  has  defaulted  or  is  likely  to default in
  performing  its  financial  engagements  or  engages  in  dishonest   or
  inequitable  practices  which  may cause substantial harm to the persons
  afforded the protection of this article.


::: 496:judicial_review.html
 
    &#167; 496.  Judicial  review.  The  refusal, suspension or revocation of a
  license by the superintendent shall be subject to review in  the  manner
  provided by article seventy-eight of the civil practice law and rules.


::: 497:investigations_and_examinations.html
 
    &#167; 497.  Investigations  and  examinations. 1. The superintendent shall
  have the power to make such investigations as he shall deem necessary to
  determine whether any licensee or any other person has violated  any  of
  the  provisions  of  this  article  or  any other law relating to retail
  instalment sales, contracts, obligations or credit  agreements,  and  to
  the  extent necessary for this purpose, he may require the attendance of
  and examine any person under oath, and shall have the  power  to  compel
  the production of all relevant books, records, accounts, and documents.
    2.  The  superintendent shall have the power to make such examinations
  of the books, records, accounts and documents used in  the  business  of
  any  licensee  as  he  shall  deem  necessary  to determine whether such
  licensee has violated any of the provisions of this article or any other
  law relating to  retail  instalment  sales,  contracts,  obligations  or
  credit agreements.
    3.  The  expenses  incurred  in  making  any  examination  pursuant to
  subdivision two of this  section  four  hundred  ninety-seven  shall  be
  assessed  against  and  paid  by  the  licensee so examined, except that
  traveling and subsistence expenses so incurred shall be charged  against
  and  paid  by  licensees in such proportions as the superintendent shall
  deem just and reasonable, and such proportionate charges shall be  added
  to  the assessment of the other expenses incurred upon each examination.
  Upon written notice by the superintendent of the total  amount  of  such
  assessment,  the  licensee  shall  become  liable for and shall pay such
  assessment to the superintendent.
    4.  All  reports  of  examinations   and   investigations,   and   all
  correspondence   and   memoranda  concerning  or  arising  out  of  such
  examinations or investigations, including any duly authenticated copy or
  copies thereof in the possession of any licensee or  the  department  of
  financial  services,  shall be confidential communications, shall not be
  subject to subpoena and shall not be made public unless, in the judgment
  of the superintendent, the ends of justice and the public advantage will
  be subserved by the publication thereof, in which event he  may  publish
  or  authorize  the  publication  of  a  copy of any such report or other
  material referred to in this subdivision four, or any part  thereof,  in
  such manner, as he may deem proper.


::: 498-b:regulations_and_rulings.html
 
    &#167; 498-b.  Regulations  and  rulings.  The  superintendent of financial
  services is hereby authorized and empowered to make such  general  rules
  and  regulations, and such specific rulings, demands and findings as may
  be necessary for the proper  conduct  of  the  business  authorized  and
  licensed under and for the enforcement of this article.


::: 498:complaints.html
 
    &#167; 498.  Complaints.  1.  Any  buyer having reason to believe that this
  article, or any other law regulating retail instalment sales, contracts,
  obligations or credit agreements, has been violated by  any  person  may
  file  with  the  superintendent  a  written  complaint setting forth the
  details of such alleged violation. Upon receipt of such  complaint,  the
  superintendent,  or  any  person duly designated by him, may inspect the
  pertinent books, records, letters and contracts of any licensee, and  of
  any  retail  seller  or other person involved, relating to such specific
  written complaint.
    2. The superintendent or any person duly designated by him, shall have
  the power to hold hearings upon such complaints  and  to  determine  the
  time  and  place  in  this  state,  reasonably convenient to the parties
  involved, where they shall be held.
    3. The superintendent shall make findings on any complaint on which  a
  hearing has been held. The investigation, notice and hearing shall be in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  article and one copy of the
  findings shall be given to each such person involved in the complaint.
    4. No licensee or other person shall  be  subject  to  examination  or
  investigation  by the superintendent except as provided in this article.
  The  superintendent  shall  have  only  such  powers  as  are  expressly
  delegated to him by this article.


::: 499:violations_and_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 499.   Violations   and   penalties.  Any  person  who  violates  or
  participates in the violation of any provision of this article,  or  who
  knowingly  makes  any  incorrect  statement  of  a  material fact in any
  application, report or statement filed pursuant to this article, or  who
  knowingly  omits  to  state  any  material  fact  necessary  to give the
  superintendent any information lawfully required by him  or  refuses  to
  permit  any  lawful  investigation  or examination, shall be guilty of a
  misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be  fined  not  more  than  five
  hundred  dollars  or imprisoned for not more than six months or both, in
  the discretion of the court.


::: 4:information_to_be_given_to_social_services_officials_state_department_of_social_services_state_department_of_mental_hygiene_the_mental_hygiene_lega.html
 
    &#167; 4.  Information  to  be  given  to  social services officials, state
  department of social services, state department of mental  hygiene,  the
  mental hygiene legal service, representatives of boards of child welfare
  and  children's  court  by  banking organizations. 1. If requested by an
  authorized representative of the state department of mental hygiene, the
  mental hygiene legal service, or  of  the  state  department  of  social
  services,  or  by the authorities charged with the duty of administering
  laws relating to public assistance or care or hospital  care  at  public
  expense  in  any  town,  city  or  county,  the officials of any banking
  organization shall furnish to such representative  such  information  as
  such  officials  have as to whether any inmate of any state institution,
  or any applicant for or any person who is or was a recipient of hospital
  care at public expense, or any applicant for or any person who is or was
  a recipient of any form of public assistance or care  under  the  social
  services  law,  named  in  such request or the husband or wife, or other
  relative legally responsible for the support of such inmate,  applicant,
  or  recipient  has or had funds, securities or other property on deposit
  or in the custody of  such  banking  organization,  and  the  amount  or
  probable value thereof.
    2. If requested by an authorized representative of the state office of
  temporary and disability assistance, or a social services district child
  support  enforcement  unit  established  pursuant to section one hundred
  eleven-c of the social services law,  the  officials  of  any  financial
  institution,  as  defined in paragraph one of subdivision (d) of section
  four hundred sixty-nine A of the  federal  social  security  act,  shall
  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  state  office  of  temporary  and
  disability assistance  or  a  social  services  district  child  support
  enforcement  unit  to  develop  and  operate  a data match system, using
  automated data exchanges to the maximum extent feasible, in  which  each
  such  financial  institution shall provide for each calendar quarter the
  name,  record  address,  social  security  number  or   other   taxpayer
  identification  number,  and  other  identifying  information  for  each
  individual  who  maintains  a  demand  deposit  account,   checking   or
  negotiable  withdrawal  order  account,  savings  account,  time deposit
  account, or money-market mutual fund account at such institution and who
  owes past-due support, as identified by the state  office  of  temporary
  and  disability  assistance  or a social services district child support
  enforcement unit by name and social security number  or  other  taxpayer
  identification  number.  Nothing  herein  shall  be  deemed to limit the
  authority of a local social services district  support  collection  unit
  pursuant to section one hundred eleven-h of the social services law.
    3.  No  financial  institution which discloses information pursuant to
  subdivision two of this section, or discloses any  financial  record  to
  the  state  office  of  temporary  and  disability assistance or a child
  support enforcement unit of a social services district for  the  purpose
  of  enforcing a child support obligation of such person, shall be liable
  under any law to any person for such disclosure, or for any other action
  taken in good faith to comply with subdivision two of this section.


::: 5001:authorized_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5001.  Authorized  shares.  1. Every corporation shall have power to
  create and issue  the  number  of  shares  stated  in  its  organization
  certificate.  Such shares may be all of one class or may be divided into
  two or more classes. Each class shall consist of shares with par  value,
  having  such designation and such relative voting, dividend, liquidation
  and other rights, preferences  and  limitations,  consistent  with  this
  chapter,  as  shall  be  stated  in  the  organization  certificate. The
  organization certificate may deny, limit or otherwise define the  voting
  rights  and  may  limit  or otherwise define the dividend or liquidation
  rights or shares of  any  class,  but  no  such  denial,  limitation  or
  definition of voting rights shall be effective unless at the time one or
  more  classes  of  outstanding  shares,  singly or in the aggregate, are
  entitled to full voting rights, and no such limitation or definition  of
  dividend or liquidation rights shall be effective unless at the time one
  or  more  classes of outstanding shares, singly or in the aggregate, are
  entitled to unlimited dividend and liquidation rights.
    2. If the shares are divided into two or more classes, the  shares  of
  each  class  shall  be designated to distinguish them from the shares of
  all other classes. Shares  which  are  entitled  to  preference  in  the
  distribution  of  dividends  or assets shall not be designated as common
  shares. Shares which are not entitled to preference in the  distribution
  of dividends or assets shall not be designated as preferred shares.
    3.  Subject  to  the  designations,  relative  rights, preferences and
  limitations applicable  to  separate  series  and  except  as  otherwise
  permitted  by  subdivision  two  of  section  five thousand five of this
  chapter, each share shall be equal to every  other  share  of  the  same
  class.


::: 5002:issue_of_any_class_of_preferred_shares_in_series.html
 
    &#167; 5002.  Issue  of  any class of preferred shares in series. 1. If the
  organization certificate so provides, a corporation may issue any  class
  of  preferred shares in series. Shares of each such series, when issued,
  shall be designated to distinguish them from the  shares  of  all  other
  series.
    2.  The  number of shares included in any or all series of any classes
  of preferred shares and any or all of the designations, relative rights,
  preferences and limitations of any or all such series may  be  fixed  in
  the  organization  certificate,  subject  to the limitation that, if the
  stated dividends and amounts payable on  liquidation  are  not  paid  in
  full,  the shares of all series of the same class shall share ratably in
  the payment of dividends including accumulations, if any, in  accordance
  with  the  sums  which  would be payable on such shares if all dividends
  were declared and paid in full, and in any distribution of assets  other
  than  by  way  of  dividends  in accordance with the sums which would be
  payable on such distribution if all  sums  payable  were  discharged  in
  full.
    3.  If  any  such  number  of shares or any such designation, relative
  right, preference or limitation of the shares of any series is not fixed
  in the organization certificate, it may be fixed by the  board,  to  the
  extent authorized by the organization certificate.
    4.  Before  the  issue  of  any  shares of a series established by the
  board, a certificate of amendment shall be filed as provided in  section
  eight thousand five. Such certificate shall set forth:
    (a)  The name of the corporation and, if it has been changed, the name
  under which it was formed.
    (b)  The  date  the  organization  certificate  was   filed   by   the
  superintendent.
    (c)  That  the  organization  certificate  is  thereby  amended by the
  addition of  a  provision  stating  the  number,  designation,  relative
  rights,  preferences,  and  limitations  of  the shares of the series as
  fixed by the board, setting forth in full the text of such provision.


::: 5003:subscription_for_shares_time_of_payment_forfeiture_for_default.html
 
    &#167; 5003.  Subscription  for  shares;  time  of  payment, forfeiture for
  default. 1. Unless otherwise provided by the terms of the  subscription,
  a  subscription  for  shares  of  a  corporation  to  be formed shall be
  irrevocable, except with the consent of all  other  subscribers  or  the
  corporation, for a period of seven months from its date.
    2.  A  subscription,  whether  made before or after the formation of a
  corporation, shall not be enforceable unless in writing  and  signed  by
  the subscriber.
    3.  Unless  otherwise  provided  by  the  terms  of  the subscription,
  subscriptions for shares, whether made before or after the formation  of
  a  corporation,  shall  be  paid  in  full  at  such  time,  or  in such
  instalments and at such times, as shall be determined by the board.  Any
  call made by the board for payment on subscriptions shall be uniform  as
  to  all  shares  of  the  same  class  or  of  the same series.   If the
  superintendent has taken possession of the business and property of  the
  corporation, all unpaid subscriptions shall be paid at such times and in
  such instalments as the superintendent may direct.
    4.  In  the  event of default in the payment of any instalment or call
  when due, the corporation may proceed to collect the amount due  in  the
  same  manner  as any debt due the corporation or the board may declare a
  forfeiture  of  the  subscriptions.  The  subscription   agreement   may
  prescribe  other  penalties, not amounting to forfeiture, for failure to
  pay instalments or calls that may  become  due.  No  forfeiture  of  the
  subscription  shall  be  declared  as  against any subscriber unless the
  amount due thereon shall remain unpaid for a period of thirty days after
  written demand has been made therefor. If mailed,  such  written  demand
  shall be deemed to be made when deposited in the United States mail in a
  sealed  envelope  addressed  to  the  subscriber at his last post-office
  address known to the corporation, with  postage  thereon  prepaid.  Upon
  forfeiture  of  the  subscription,  if  at  least  fifty  percent of the
  subscription price has been paid, the shares  subscribed  for  shall  be
  offered for sale for cash at a price at least sufficient to pay the full
  balance  owed  by the delinquent subscriber plus the expenses incidental
  to such sale, and any excess of net proceeds realized  over  the  amount
  owed on such shares shall be paid to the delinquent subscriber or to his
  legal  representative.  If  no prospective purchaser offers a cash price
  sufficient to pay the full balance owed  by  the  delinquent  subscriber
  plus the expenses incidental to such sale, or if less than fifty percent
  of the subscription price has been paid, the shares subscribed for shall
  be  cancelled  and  restored  to  the  status of authorized but unissued
  shares and all previous payments  thereon  shall  be  forfeited  to  the
  corporation and transferred to surplus.


::: 5004:consideration_and_payment_for_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5004. Consideration and payment for shares. 1. Consideration for the
  issue  of shares shall consist of money or (except as otherwise required
  by subdivision a of subdivision one of section four thousand four) other
  property tangible or intangible, or labor or services actually  received
  by  or  performed  for  the  corporation  or  for  its benefit or in its
  formation or reorganization, or a combination thereof. In the absence of
  fraud in the transaction, the judgment of the board or stockholders,  as
  the  case  may  be,  as  to  the value of the consideration received for
  shares shall be conclusive.
    2. Neither obligations of  the  subscriber  for  future  payments  nor
  future services shall constitute payment or part payment for shares of a
  corporation.
    3.  Shares may be issued for such consideration, not less than the par
  value thereof, as is fixed from time to time by the board.
    4. Treasury shares may be disposed of by a corporation on  such  terms
  and conditions as are fixed from time to time by the board.
    5.   Upon   distribution   of   authorized   but  unissued  shares  to
  stockholders, that part  of  the  undivided  profits  or  surplus  of  a
  corporation  which is concurrently transferred to capital stock shall be
  the consideration for the issue of such shares.
    6. In the event of a conversion of capital notes, debentures or shares
  into shares, or in the event of an exchange of capital notes, debentures
  or shares for shares, the consideration for  the  shares  so  issued  in
  exchange  or conversion shall be the sum of (a) either the principal sum
  of, and  accrued  interest  on,  the  capital  notes  or  debentures  so
  exchanged  or  converted, or the par value of the shares so exchanged or
  converted, plus (b) any additional consideration paid to the corporation
  for  the  new  shares,  plus  (c)  any  undivided  profits  or   surplus
  transferred to capital stock in respect of the new shares.
    7.  Certificates for shares may not be issued until the full amount of
  the consideration therefor has been paid.
    8. When the consideration for  shares  has  been  paid  in  full,  the
  subscriber  shall  be  entitled  to  all  the rights and privileges of a
  holder of such shares and to a certificate representing his shares,  and
  such  shares  shall  be  fully paid and, subject to sections one hundred
  thirteen-a, one hundred thirteen-b, one hundred fourteen, three  hundred
  five, three hundred five-a, three hundred six, three hundred twenty-two,
  three  hundred  twenty-two-a  and  three  hundred  twenty-three  of this
  chapter, shall be nonassessable.


::: 5005:transferable_rights_to_purchase_shares_imposition_of_restrictions_or_conditions_thereon.html
 
    &#167; 5005.   Transferable   rights  to  purchase  shares;  imposition  of
  restrictions or conditions thereon. 1. Except as otherwise  provided  in
  this  section  or  in  the  organization  certificate, a corporation may
  create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issue  and  sale
  of  any  of  its  capital notes, debentures or shares, rights or options
  entitling the holders thereof to purchase  from  the  corporation,  upon
  such  consideration,  terms and conditions as may be fixed by the board,
  shares of any class or series, whether authorized but  unissued  shares,
  treasury shares or shares to be purchased or acquired.
    2.  (a)  In the case of a corporation that has a class of voting stock
  registered pursuant to section twelve of the Exchange Act, the terms and
  conditions of such rights or options may  include,  without  limitation,
  restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer
  or receipt of such rights or options by an interested shareholder or any
  transferee of any such interested shareholder or that invalidate or void
  such  rights  or  options held by any such interested shareholder or any
  such transferee. For the purposes of this subdivision, the terms "voting
  stock", "Exchange Act" and "interested shareholder" shall have the  same
  respective  meanings  as are set forth in section nine hundred twelve of
  the business corporation law except that for this purpose references  in
  said  section  of  the  business corporation law to a "resident business
  corporation" shall be read  instead  to  refer  to  a  "corporation"  as
  defined by section one thousand one of this chapter.
    (b)  Determinations  of  the  board  of  directors  whether to impose,
  enforce or waive or otherwise render  ineffective  such  limitations  or
  conditions  as  are permitted by paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall
  be subject to judicial review in an appropriate proceeding in which  the
  courts  formulate or apply appropriate standards in order to insure that
  such limitations or conditions are imposed, enforced or  waived  in  the
  best long-term interests and short-term interests of the corporation and
  its  stockholders  considering,  without  limitation,  the prospects for
  potential growth, development, productivity  and  profitability  of  the
  corporation.
    3.  The  consideration for shares to be purchased under any such right
  or option shall comply with the requirements of  section  five  thousand
  four of this chapter.
    4.  The  terms and conditions of such rights or options, including the
  time or times at or within which and the price or prices at  which  they
  may  be exercised and any limitations upon transferability, shall be set
  forth or incorporated by reference  in  the  instrument  or  instruments
  evidencing such rights or options.
    5.  If  there  is  shareholder  approval  for  the issue of rights and
  options, such approval may provide  that  the  board  is  authorized  by
  certificate  of  amendment  under  section  eight  thousand five of this
  chapter to increase the authorized shares of any class or series to such
  number as will be sufficient, when added to  the  previously  authorized
  but  unissued shares of such class or series, to satisfy any such rights
  or  options  entitling  the  holders  thereof  to  purchase   from   the
  corporation authorized but unissued shares of such class or series.
    6.  In  the  absence  of fraud in the transaction, the judgment of the
  board shall be conclusive as  to  the  adequacy  of  the  consideration,
  tangible  or  intangible,  received or to be received by the corporation
  for the issue of rights or options for the purchase from the corporation
  of its shares.
    7. The provisions of this section are inapplicable to  the  rights  of
  the  holders  of  convertible  shares,  capital  notes  or debentures to
  acquire shares upon the exercise of conversion privileges under  section
  five thousand sixteen of this chapter.
    8.  The  provisions  of this section are inapplicable to the rights of
  officers, directors and employees of a corporation who have been  issued
  options  to purchase authorized and unissued shares of its capital stock
  under or by reference to section one hundred forty-a of this chapter.


::: 5006:compensation_for_formation_reorganization_and_financing.html
 
    &#167; 5006.  Compensation for formation, reorganization and financing. The
  reasonable charges and expenses of  formation  or  reorganization  of  a
  corporation,  and  the  reasonable  expenses of and compensation for the
  sale or underwriting of its  shares  may  be  paid  or  allowed  by  the
  corporation  out  of the consideration received by it in payment for its
  shares without thereby impairing the fully paid and nonassessable status
  of such shares as provided in subdivision eight of section five thousand
  four.


::: 5007:certificates_representing_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5007.   Certificates   representing  shares.  1.  The  shares  of  a
  corporation  shall  be  represented  by   certificates   or   shall   be
  uncertificated  shares.  Certificates shall be signed by the chairman or
  a vice-chairman of the board or the president or  a  vice-president  and
  the secretary or an assistant secretary or, in the case of a corporation
  which  does  not  have  a  secretary  or  an assistant secretary, by the
  cashier or an assistant  cashier,  or  the  treasurer  or  an  assistant
  treasurer  of  the  corporation,  and may be sealed with the seal of the
  corporation or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of the officers  upon
  a  certificate  may  be  facsimiles  if  (i)  the shares are listed on a
  registered national  security  exchange,  or  (ii)  the  certificate  is
  countersigned  by  a  transfer agent or registered by a registrar which,
  unless the corporation is a trust company, shall be a person other  than
  the  corporation  itself  or  its  employee. In case any officer who has
  signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon  a  certificate
  shall  have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued,
  it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she
  were such officer at the date of issue.
    2. Each certificate representing shares issued by a corporation  which
  is  authorized  to  issue  shares of more than one class shall set forth
  upon the face or back of  the  certificate,  or  shall  state  that  the
  corporation  will  furnish  to  any stockholder upon request and without
  charge,  a  full  statement  of  the   designation,   relative   rights,
  preferences and limitations of the shares of each class authorized to be
  issued  and,  if  the  corporation  is  authorized to issue any class of
  preferred  shares  in  series,   the   designation,   relative   rights,
  preferences  and limitations of each such series so far as the same have
  been fixed and the authority of the  board  to  designate  and  fix  the
  relative rights, preferences and limitations of other series.
    3.  Each  certificate representing shares shall when issued state upon
  the face thereof:
    (a) That the corporation is formed under the laws of this state.
    (b) The name of the person or persons to whom issued.
    (c) The number and class of shares, and the designation of the series,
  if any, which such certificate represents.
    (d) The par value of each share represented by such certificate.
    4. Shares shall be transferable in the manner provided by law  and  in
  the by-laws.
    5.  The corporation may issue a new certificate for shares in place of
  any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been  lost  or
  destroyed,  and the board may require the owner of the lost or destroyed
  certificate, or his legal representative, to give the corporation a bond
  sufficient to indemnify the corporation against any claim  that  may  be
  made  against  it  on  account of the alleged loss or destruction of any
  such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.
    6. Unless otherwise provided  by  the  articles  of  incorporation  or
  by-laws,  the  board  of  directors  of  a  corporation  may  provide by
  resolution that some or all of any or all  classes  and  series  of  its
  shares  shall  be  uncertificated  shares, provided that such resolution
  shall not apply to  shares  represented  by  a  certificate  until  such
  certificate  is surrendered to the corporation. Within a reasonable time
  after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation
  shall send to the registered owner thereof a written  notice  containing
  the  information  required  to  be  set  forth or stated on certificates
  pursuant to subdivisions two  and  three  of  this  section.  Except  as
  otherwise  expressly  provided by law, the rights and obligations of the
  holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations  of  the
  holders  of  certificated  shares  and the rights and obligations of the
  holders of certificates representing shares of the same class and series
  shall be identical.


::: 5008:fractions_of_a_share_or_scrip_authorized.html
 
    &#167; 5008.  Fractions of a share or scrip authorized. 1. a. A corporation
  may, but shall not be obliged to, issue  fractions  of  a  share  either
  represented  by  a  certificate or uncertificated, which may entitle the
  holder, in proportion to his or her  fractional  holdings,  to  exercise
  voting   rights,   receive  dividends  and  participate  in  liquidating
  distributions.
    b. As an alternative, a corporation may pay in cash the fair value  of
  fractions  of a share as of the time when those entitled to receive such
  fractions are determined.
    2. As an alternative, a corporation may issue scrip in  registered  or
  bearer  form over the manual or facsimile signature of an officer of the
  corporation or of its agent, exchangeable as therein provided  for  full
  shares,  but  such scrip shall not entitle the holder to any rights of a
  stockholder except as therein provided. Such scrip may be issued subject
  to the condition  that  it  shall  become  void  if  not  exchanged  for
  certificates  representing  full  shares  or  uncertificated full shares
  before a specified date, or subject to the condition that the shares for
  which such scrip is exchangeable may be sold by the corporation and  the
  proceeds thereof distributed to the holders of such scrip, or subject to
  any other conditions which the board may determine.
    3.  Subject  to  subdivision  six  of  section  one  hundred three and
  subdivision three of section  five  hundred  nine  of  this  chapter,  a
  corporation  may  provide reasonable opportunity for persons entitled to
  fractions of a share or scrip to sell such fractions of a share or scrip
  or to purchase such additional fractions of a share or scrip as  may  be
  needed to acquire a full share.


::: 5009:dividends_or_other_distributions_in_cash_or_property.html
 
    &#167; 5009.  Dividends or other distributions in cash or property. Subject
  to sections one  hundred  ten,  one  hundred  twelve  and  five  hundred
  seventeen  of  this chapter, a corporation may declare and pay dividends
  or make other distributions in cash or property, including the shares or
  bonds of other corporations, on  its  outstanding  shares,  out  of  net
  profits  or  surplus,  except  when  there  is any impairment of capital
  stock, or when  the  declaration,  payment,  or  distribution  would  be
  contrary to any restrictions contained in the organization certificate.


::: 5010:share_distributions_and_changes.html
 
    &#167; 5010. Share distributions and changes. 1. A corporation may make pro
  rata  distributions  of its authorized but unissued shares to holders of
  any class or series of its outstanding shares, subject to the  following
  conditions:
    (a) Such shares shall be issued at not less than the par value thereof
  and  there  shall  be  transferred  to capital stock at the time of such
  distribution an amount of undivided profits  or  surplus  equal  to  the
  aggregate par value of such shares.
    (b)  A  distribution of shares of any class or series may be made only
  to holders of the same class or series of shares unless the organization
  certificate permits distribution, subject to the  preemptive  rights  of
  holders of any outstanding shares, to holders of another class or series
  or unless such distribution is authorized, when there are no outstanding
  preemptive rights, by the affirmative vote or the written consent of the
  holders  of  a majority of the outstanding shares of the class or series
  to be distributed.
    2. A corporation making a pro  rata  distribution  of  authorized  but
  unissued  shares  to  the  holders of any class or series of outstanding
  shares may at its option make an equivalent distribution  upon  treasury
  shares  of the same class or series, and any shares so distributed shall
  be treasury shares.
    3. A change  of  issued  shares  of  any  class  which  increases  the
  aggregate  par  value  of  those  shares  may  be made if the sum of the
  undivided profits and surplus of the corporation is sufficient to permit
  the transfer, and  a  transfer  is  concurrently  made,  from  undivided
  profits  or  surplus  to  capital  stock,  of  an  amount  equal to such
  increase.


::: 5011:redeemable_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5011.  Redeemable  shares.    1.  A  corporation  may provide in its
  organization certificate for a class of common shares in relation to  an
  incentive  stock  option plan pursuant to section one hundred forty-a of
  this chapter and for one or more classes or series of  preferred  shares
  which  are  redeemable,  in  whole  or  in  part,  at  the option of the
  corporation at such price or prices, within such period or  periods  and
  under such conditions as are stated in the organization certificate.
    2.  A  corporation  shall  not  issue redeemable or other shares which
  purport by their terms to grant to  any  holder  thereof  the  right  to
  compel the corporation to redeem such shares.
    3.  Nothing  in this section shall prevent a corporation from creating
  sinking funds for the redemption or purchase of its preferred shares  to
  the extent permitted by section five thousand twelve.


::: 5012:purchase_or_redemption_by_a_corporation_of_its_own_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5012.  Purchase or redemption by a corporation of its own shares. 1.
  A corporation may purchase its own shares, or pay stockholders  entitled
  to  receive  payment  for their shares, when permitted or required under
  any other provision of this chapter.
    2. To effect retirement of its common shares reacquired under  section
  one  hundred  forty-a  of  this  chapter,  or of its preferred shares in
  accordance  with  any  provision  in  its  organization  certificate,  a
  corporation  may,  with  the  written  approval  of  the superintendent,
  purchase or redeem such shares out of undivided profits or  surplus  or,
  to the extent of the par value of such shares, out of capital stock.
    3. Nothing in this title shall prevent a corporation from returning to
  stockholders  any amounts made available for such purpose by a reduction
  of capital stock in accordance with section eight thousand two.


::: 5013:agreements_for_purchase_by_a_corporation_of_its_own_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5013. Agreements for purchase by a corporation of its own shares. 1.
  An  agreement  for the purchase by a corporation of its own shares shall
  be enforceable by the stockholder and the corporation to the extent such
  purchase is permitted at the time of purchase by section  five  thousand
  twelve.
    2.  The possibility that a corporation may not be able to purchase its
  shares under section five thousand twelve shall  not  be  a  ground  for
  denying  to  either  party  specific performance of an agreement for the
  purchase by a corporation  of  its  own  shares,  if  at  the  time  for
  performance  the  corporation  can  purchase  all or part of such shares
  under section five thousand twelve.


::: 5014:reacquired_shares.html
 
    &#167; 5014.  Reacquired  shares.  1. Shares that have been issued and have
  been reacquired under subdivision one of section  five  thousand  twelve
  shall,  subject  to other applicable provisions of this chapter, be sold
  or  otherwise  disposed  of  or,  with  the  written  approval  of   the
  superintendent, may be retained or may be cancelled by the board.
    2.  Shares  that  have  been  issued and thereafter converted shall be
  cancelled.
    3. Shares that  have  been  issued  and  have  been  reacquired  under
  subdivision two of section five thousand twelve shall be cancelled.
    4.  Neither  the retention of reacquired shares as treasury shares nor
  their subsequent distribution  to  stockholders  or  disposition  for  a
  consideration shall change the capital stock.
    5.  When  reacquired shares other than converted shares are cancelled,
  the capital stock of the corporation shall be reduced by the  amount  of
  capital stock represented by such shares.
    6.  Within  ninety  days  after  any  shares  are cancelled under this
  section, (a) the corporation  by  action  of  the  board  shall  file  a
  certificate  of  amendment under section eight thousand five eliminating
  such shares from the number of authorized shares,  except  that  if  the
  organization  certificate  does not prohibit the reissue of such shares,
  such shares may with the  written  approval  of  the  superintendent  be
  restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares, and (b) unless
  stated  in  a  certificate  of  amendment so filed, a certificate of the
  corporation shall be signed, verified and filed as provided  in  section
  one  thousand three stating the number of shares of each class or series
  thereof so cancelled,  the  manner  of  reacquisition  thereof  and,  if
  converted  shares,  the number of shares of each class or series thereof
  into which the same were converted,  and  such  other  information  with
  respect thereto as the superintendent may require.


::: 5015:capital_notes_and_debentures.html
 
    &#167; 5015.  Capital  notes  and  debentures.  No  corporation shall issue
  capital notes or debentures except for money or other property, tangible
  or intangible, or labor or services actually received  by  or  performed
  for  the  corporation  or  for  its  benefit  or  in  its  formation  or
  reorganization, or a combination thereof.  In the absence  of  fraud  in
  the  transaction,  the  judgment  of  the  board  as to the value of the
  consideration received shall be conclusive.


::: 5016:convertible_shares_capital_notes_and_debentures.html
 
    &#167; 5016.  Convertible  shares, capital notes and debentures. 1. When so
  provided  in  the  organization  certificate,   and   subject   to   the
  restrictions in subdivision four of this section, a bank, trust company,
  stock-form  savings bank, or stock-form savings and loan association may
  issue preferred shares convertible, at the option of  the  holder  only,
  into  common  shares of any class.  Authorized shares, whether issued or
  unissued, may be made so convertible within such period  and  upon  such
  terms and conditions as are stated in the organization certificate.
    2.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  the organization certificate, and
  subject to subdivision four of section ninety-six and subdivision five-b
  of  section  two  hundred  thirty-four  of  this  chapter,  and  to  the
  restrictions in subdivision four of this section, a bank, trust company,
  stock-form  savings bank, or stock-form savings and loan association may
  issue its capital notes or debentures convertible  into  shares  of  the
  corporation within such period and upon such terms and conditions as are
  fixed by the board.
    3.  If  there  is stockholder approval for the issue of capital notes,
  debentures or shares convertible into shares of  the  corporation,  such
  approval  may  provide  that  the  board is authorized by certificate of
  amendment under section eight thousand five to increase  the  authorized
  shares of any class or series to such number as will be sufficient, when
  added  to the previously authorized but unissued shares of such class or
  series, to satisfy the conversion privileges of any such capital  notes,
  debentures or shares convertible into shares of such class or series.
    4.  No  issue  of capital notes, debentures or shares convertible into
  shares of the corporation shall be made unless:
    (a) A sufficient number of  authorized  but  unissued  shares  of  the
  appropriate  class or series are reserved by the board to be issued only
  in satisfaction of the conversion privileges of such convertible capital
  notes, debentures or shares when issued; or
    (b) The aggregate conversion privileges of  such  convertible  capital
  notes,  debentures  or shares when issued do not exceed the aggregate of
  any shares reserved under paragraph (a) and any additional shares  which
  may be authorized by the board under subdivision three of this section.
    5.  No  privilege  of  conversion may be conferred upon, or altered in
  respect to, any shares or capital notes or debentures that would  result
  in the receipt by the corporation of less than the minimum consideration
  required to be received upon the issue of new shares.  The consideration
  for  shares  issued upon the exercise of a conversion privilege shall be
  that provided in subdivision six of section five thousand four.
    6. Within ninety days  after  any  capital  notes  or  debentures  are
  converted   into  shares  of  the  corporation,  a  certificate  of  the
  corporation shall be signed, verified and filed as provided  in  section
  one  thousand three stating the amount of capital notes or debentures so
  converted, the number of shares of each class or series into  which  the
  same  were converted, and such other information with respect thereto as
  the superintendent may require.


::: 501:repeal_of_inconsistent_acts.html
 
    &#167; 501.  Repeal  of  inconsistent  acts.  All  acts  and  parts of acts
  inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the extent of such
  inconsistency.


::: 502:severability.html
 
    &#167; 502.   Severability.  If  any  provision  of  this  article  or  the
  application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,  such
  invalidity  shall  not  affect  the  remainder  of  this  article or the
  application of such provision to other persons or other circumstances.


::: 5050:company_finance.html
 
    &#167; 5050.  Company finance. Notwithstanding the provisions of title five
  of  this  article,  the  allocation  of  profits  and  losses,  and  the
  distribution  of  cash or other assets of a limited liability investment
  company or limited liability trust company shall be in  accordance  with
  article five of the limited liability company law.


::: 507:limited_liability_investment_companies.html
 
    &#167; 507. Limited liability investment companies. 1. Investment companies
  which  (a)  do not accept or maintain credit balances or deposits in the
  United States, (b) do not engage in any business activity in the  United
  States  except as an incident to their international or foreign business
  or  operations,  and  (c)  conduct  business  in  compliance  with   the
  provisions  of  this  chapter,  may  be  formed  and operated as limited
  liability  investment  companies.  Such  limited  liability   investment
  companies   shall  be  formed  in  accordance  with,  shall  operate  in
  compliance with, and shall meet all of the requirements of  the  limited
  liability  company  law  and this chapter, except that to the extent any
  provision of the limited liability company  law  shall  be  inconsistent
  with  the  provisions  of  this  chapter, the provisions of this chapter
  shall govern;  provided,  however,  that  limited  liability  investment
  companies shall not have perpetual existence.
    2.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of this chapter, a limited
  liability investment company shall dissolve and  its  affairs  shall  be
  wound  up  upon  the  occurrence of any event specified in section seven
  hundred  one  of  the  limited  liability  company  law.  Upon  such   a
  dissolution,  the provisions of this chapter shall govern the winding up
  of the affairs of the  limited  liability  investment  company  and  the
  distribution  of  its  assets.  Further, upon such a dissolution, if the
  members of a limited liability investment company wish to  continue  the
  existence  of  the  company  and  meet the requirements of section seven
  hundred one of the limited liability company law, they shall  apply  for
  and may receive the approval of the superintendent for a new articles of
  organization and new authorization certificate.
    3.  For  a  period  of  one  year following the effective date of this
  section, investment companies which have been formed and  are  operating
  pursuant  to  this  article  and  article fifteen of this chapter on the
  effective date of this section,  and  which  meet  the  requirements  of
  subdivision  one  of  this  section,  may convert into limited liability
  investment companies provided they meet all of the other requirements of
  this chapter as if they were newly formed companies and subject  to  the
  approval of the superintendent of financial services.
    4.  The superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered to make such
  general rules  and  regulations  as  may  be  necessary  and  proper  to
  effectuate  the provisions of this chapter relating to the formation and
  operation of limited liability investment companies.


::: 508:general_powers.html
 
    &#167; 508.  General powers. In addition to the powers conferred by article
  fifteen of this chapter, an  investment  company  may,  subject  to  the
  restrictions  and  limitations  contained  in  this  article,  have  the
  following powers:
    1. (a) To borrow and lend money, with  or  without  real  or  personal
  security;  as principal or agent, to purchase, discount, acquire, invest
  in, sell and dispose of bills of exchange,  drafts,  notes,  acceptances
  and  other  choses  in  action and obligations for the payment of money;
  and, as principal or agent, to purchase, acquire,  invest  in,  service,
  sell  and  dispose  of,  and  make loans upon the security of, bonds and
  mortgages on real property situated in this state or outside this state.
    (b) Pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of  this  subdivision,  an  investment
  company  may  lend  money  at  a  rate or rates, and upon such terms and
  conditions, as agreed to by such investment company and borrower.
    2. To accept bills of exchange or drafts  drawn  upon  it  payable  on
  demand or on time not exceeding one year from the date of acceptance; to
  issue  letters of credit authorizing the holders thereof to draw upon it
  or its correspondents at sight or on time; and to  buy  and  sell  coin,
  bullion and exchange.
    3.  With the approval of the superintendent of financial services, and
  subject to such conditions as the superintendent of  financial  services
  shall impose,
    (a)  To  act as financial agent of the United States government and as
  depositary of public money of  the  United  States  (including,  without
  being limited to, revenues and funds of the United States, and any funds
  the  deposit  of  which  is  subject to the control or regulation of the
  United States or any of its officers,  agents,  or  employees);  and  to
  perform  all  such  reasonable duties as depositary of such public money
  and as financial agent  of  the  United  States  government  as  may  be
  required  of  it;  and  to  pledge  assets  or  furnish  other security,
  satisfactory in form and amount to the secretary of the treasury of  the
  United  States,  for  the  safekeeping and prompt payment of such public
  money deposited with it and for the faithful performance of  its  duties
  as financial agent of the United States government.
    (b)  To  engage  in  the  business  of receiving deposits outside this
  state.
    (c) To receive money for transmission and to transmit  the  same  from
  the United States to any foreign country and from any foreign country to
  the United States.
    4.  To establish branches pursuant to the provisions of article two of
  this chapter; provided, however, that an investment company to which the
  provisions of subdivision two of section thirty-six of this chapter  are
  inapplicable  may  establish  branches,  without  applying and obtaining
  authorization therefor under the  provisions  of  article  two  of  this
  chapter,  but  such  investment  company  shall not open any such branch
  until it shall have notified the superintendent in writing of the  place
  where such branch is to be located.
    5.  To  purchase, acquire, invest in and hold all or any of the stocks
  of any corporation, domestic or foreign, and to sell and dispose of  all
  or any such stocks owned by it.
    6. To exercise, subject to such regulations as may be issued from time
  to  time  by  the  superintendent,  through any branch office opened and
  occupied outside the states of the United States  and  the  District  of
  Columbia  with the approval of the superintendent as provided in article
  two of this chapter, such further powers as may be usual, in  connection
  with  the  transaction of the business permitted by this article, in the
  place where such branch office shall transact business; provided that no
  such branch office shall engage in the general  business  of  producing,
  distributing, buying or selling goods, wares, or merchandise.
    The  grant  of  powers  to investment companies by or pursuant to this
  section shall not be deemed to limit or restrict any other corporations,
  heretofore or hereafter organized,  in  the  exercise  of  their  lawful
  powers.


::: 509:restrictions_on_powers_of_investment_companies.html
 
    &#167; 509.  Restrictions  on powers of investment companies. An investment
  company shall not:
    1. Exercise within this state the powers conferred by subdivision  two
  of  section  five  hundred eight of this chapter, unless it shall have a
  paid-up capital stock of at least two million dollars.
    2. Deposit any of its funds with any other moneyed corporation  unless
  such  other corporation has been designated as such depositary by a vote
  of a majority of the directors of the investment company,  exclusive  of
  any director who is an officer, director or trustee of the depositary so
  designated;  provided,  however, that this limitation shall not apply to
  the deposit of funds by  an  investment  company  with  another  moneyed
  corporation,  which  owns all or a majority of the capital stock of such
  investment company.
    3. Be the holder of any shares of its own capital  stock  unless  such
  stock  shall  have  been  taken  to  prevent loss upon a debt previously
  contracted in good faith, and stock so acquired shall, within six months
  from the time of its acquisition, be sold or disposed of  at  public  or
  private  sale;  nor  shall  it,  either directly or indirectly, make any
  discount to any person for the purpose of enabling him  to  pay  for  or
  hold  shares of its stock either subscribed for or purchased by him. Any
  investment company making any such discount shall forfeit to the  people
  of the state twice the amount of such discount.
    4.  Except  as provided in section five hundred eight of this article,
  engage in the business of receiving deposits;  provided,  however,  that
  nothing  contained  in  this article shall prevent an investment company
  from maintaining for the account of others  credit  balances  incidental
  to,  or  arising  out  of,  the  exercise  of its lawful powers, but the
  superintendent of financial services shall have power to  prescribe,  by
  specific  or general regulation, the extent to which, and the conditions
  upon which, such credit balances may be established, maintained and paid
  out.


::: 510:restrictions_as_to_entries_in_books.html
 
    &#167; 510.  Restrictions  as to entries in books. 1. No investment company
  shall by any system of accounting or any device of bookkeeping, directly
  or indirectly enter any of its assets upon its books in the name of  any
  other    individual,    partnership,   unincorporated   association   or
  corporation, or under  any  title  or  designation  that  is  not  truly
  descriptive thereof.
    2.  Every  investment company shall conform its methods of keeping its
  books and records to such orders in respect thereto as shall  have  been
  made and promulgated by the superintendent pursuant to the provisions of
  article  two  of  this  chapter.  Any investment company that refuses or
  neglects to obey such order shall be subject to a penalty in  an  amount
  as  determined  pursuant  to section forty-four of this chapter for each
  day it so refuses or neglects.


::: 511:change_of_location_change_of_designation_of_principal_office.html
 
    &#167; 511.  Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
  Any  investment  company  may  make  a  written   application   to   the
  superintendent,  such  application to be accompanied by an investigation
  fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of  this  chapter,  for
  leave  to  change  its place or one of its places of business to another
  place or for leave to change the designation of its principal office  to
  a  branch  office  and  to  change  the designation of one of its branch
  offices to its principal office. The application shall state the reasons
  for such proposed change, and shall  be  accompanied  by  a  copy  of  a
  resolution  authorizing  the  making  of the application, certified by a
  principal officer of the investment company to have been adopted by vote
  of a majority of its entire board of directors. If the proposed place of
  business is within the limits of the village, borough or city, if  in  a
  city not divided into boroughs, in which the place of business sought to
  be changed is located, such change may be made upon the written approval
  of  the  superintendent;  if  beyond such limits, notice of intention to
  make such application, signed by a principal officer of the corporation,
  shall be published once a week for two successive weeks in  a  newspaper
  to  be  designated  by the superintendent for the purpose, in accordance
  with  the  provisions  of  article  two  of   this   chapter.   If   the
  superintendent shall grant his or her certificate authorizing the change
  of  location, as provided in article two of this chapter, the investment
  company may, upon or after the day specified in the certificate,  remove
  its property and effects to the location designated therein.
    Anything contained in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, an
  investment company to which the provisions of subdivision two of section
  thirty-six  of  this chapter are inapplicable may change the location of
  its place or one of its places of  business  to  another  place  or  may
  change  the  designation  of its principal office to a branch office and
  change the designation of one of its branch  offices  to  its  principal
  office,  without  applying or obtaining authorization therefor under the
  provisions of this section or article two of this chapter, but  no  such
  change  shall  be  made  by  an  investment  company until it shall have
  notified the superintendent in writing of the new  location  or  of  the
  change of designation of its principal office.
    If the newly designated principal office be in a different county than
  the county in which the principal office is located immediately prior to
  the  change, the superintendent shall file in the office of the clerk of
  each such county a certificate stating that such change has been made by
  the investment company.


::: 512:communications_from_department_of_financial_services_must_be_submitted_to_directors_and_noted_in_minutes.html
 
    &#167; 512.  Communications  from  department of financial services must be
  submitted  to  directors  and   noted   in   minutes.   Every   official
  communication  as  defined in article two of this chapter directed to an
  investment company or to any officer thereof shall be submitted, by  the
  officer  receiving  it, to the board of directors at the next meeting of
  such board, and duly noted in the minutes of the meetings of such board.


::: 513:reports_to_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 513.  Reports to superintendent. On or before the first day of April
  in each year, every investment company shall make a  written  report  to
  the superintendent of financial services which shall contain a statement
  of its condition on the morning of the first day of January in said year
  and  shall  be  in  the  form  and contain the matters prescribed by the
  superintendent. The  superintendent  may,  however,  in  his  discretion
  accept  from  an  investment  company  which  has  branches in a foreign
  country or countries, a report containing a statement of  its  condition
  as  of  a  date  not later than the first day of January and not earlier
  than the first day of November in the preceding year. Every such  report
  shall be subscribed and affirmed as true under the penalties of perjury,
  according  to  the  best  of  their  knowledge  and  belief,  by the two
  principal officers of  the  investment  company  at  the  time  of  such
  subscription,  and shall state that the usual business of the investment
  company has been transacted at the location  or  locations  required  by
  this article and not elsewhere.
    Every  such  investment  company  shall  also  make such other special
  reports to the superintendent as he may from time to time require, which
  shall be in such form and filed at such date as may be prescribed by the
  superintendent and shall, if required by him, be subscribed and affirmed
  as true under the penalties of perjury.


::: 514:liability_of_investment_company_for_assessments_by_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 514.   Liability   of   investment   company   for   assessments  by
  superintendent.    When  the  superintendent,  pursuant  to  the  powers
  conferred  on  him by article two of this chapter, shall have levied any
  assessment upon any investment company and shall have duly notified such
  investment company of the amount thereof, the amount so  assessed  shall
  become  a  liability  of and shall be paid by such investment company to
  the superintendent.


::: 515:preservation_of_records_of_investment_company.html
 
    &#167; 515. Preservation of records of investment company. Every investment
  company  shall  preserve all its records of final entry, including cards
  used under the card system and deposit tickets, for a period of at least
  six years from the date of making the same or from the date of the  last
  entry  thereon;  provided,  however,  that  preservation of photographic
  reproduction thereof or records in photographic  form  shall  constitute
  compliance with the requirements of this section.


::: 516:restrictions_on_officers_directors_and_other_employees.html
 
    &#167; 516.  Restrictions  on  officers,  directors and other employees. No
  officer, director, clerk or other employee of  any  investment  company,
  and  no  person  in any way interested or concerned in the management of
  its affairs, shall as individuals discount, or directly  or  indirectly,
  make  any  loan  upon any note or other evidence of debt, which he shall
  know to have been offered for discount to such corporation, and to  have
  been refused. Every person violating the provisions of this subdivision,
  shall,  for  each  offense, forfeit to the people of the state twice the
  amount of the loan which he shall have made.
    No executive officer or  director  of  any  investment  company  shall
  borrow,  directly or indirectly, from such investment company any sum of
  money  if  the  transaction  would  not  be  permissible   pursuant   to
  subdivision  eight  of  section one hundred three of this chapter in the
  case of an executive officer or director, as the case may be, of a  bank
  or trust company.
    Vacancies in the board of directors occasioned by resignations, deaths
  or  other  cause  shall  be  reported  by each investment company to the
  superintendent within ten days  after  the  event;  and  the  investment
  company  shall  likewise  report each election by the board to fill such
  vacancy with the name, address and occupation of the person elected  and
  the name of the person whose place he fills.


::: 517:how_net_earnings_credited_for_dividend_purposes_credits_to_surplus_fund_and_to_undivided_profits_dividends_to_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 517.  How  net  earnings  credited for dividend purposes, credits to
  surplus fund and to undivided profits, dividends to  stockholders.  When
  the net earnings of an investment company having preferred shares issued
  and  outstanding have been determined at the close of a dividend period,
  if the surplus fund does not equal twenty per centum of  the  investment
  company's  capital,  one-tenth of such net earnings shall be credited to
  the surplus fund, or so much thereof, less than one-tenth, as will  make
  such  fund  equal twenty per centum of such capital. The balance of such
  net earnings, or the entire amount thereof  if  such  fund  equals  such
  twenty  per  centum,  may be credited to the investment company's profit
  and loss account; or, if its  expenses  and  losses  for  such  dividend
  period  exceed  its  gross earnings, such excess shall be charged to its
  profit and loss account.  The  credit  balance  of  such  account  shall
  constitute  the  undivided profits at the close of such dividend period,
  which undivided profits shall be available for dividends.
    The directors of any investment company may annually, semi-annually or
  quarterly, but not more frequently, declare such dividends as they shall
  judge expedient from such undivided profits; provided, however, that the
  directors of any such company may declare a dividend in the  last  month
  of  the fiscal year of such company, in lieu of any other semi-annual or
  quarterly declaration in the same fiscal  year.  No  investment  company
  shall declare any dividends to its stockholders until it shall have made
  good   any   existing   impairment  of  its  capital  and  any  existing
  encroachment on its reserves required to be maintained against deposits.


::: 518:payment_of_claims_by_investment_companies_where_adverse_claim_is_asserted_effect_of_claims_or_advices_originating_in_and_statutes_rules_or_regulati.html
 
    &#167; 518.  Payment  of claims by investment companies where adverse claim
  is asserted; effect of claims or advices originating in,  and  statutes,
  rules or regulations purporting to be in force in occupied territory. 1.
  Notice  to  any  investment  company  of  an  adverse  claim to a credit
  standing on its books to the account of any person,  or  of  an  adverse
  claim  to  securities  or  other  property  held  for the account of any
  person, shall not be effectual  to  cause  said  investment  company  to
  recognize  said adverse claimant unless said adverse claimant shall also
  either procure a restraining  order,  injunction  or  other  appropriate
  process  against  said  investment  company  from  a  court of competent
  jurisdiction in the United States in a cause therein instituted  by  him
  wherein  the  person  to  whose  account the credit stands, or for whose
  account the securities or other property are held, or  his  executor  or
  administrator  is made a party and served with summons, or shall execute
  to said investment company, in form and with sureties acceptable to it a
  bond, indemnifying said investment company from any and  all  liability,
  loss,  damage,  costs and expenses, for and on account of the payment of
  or delivery pursuant to such adverse claim or the dishonor of the  order
  of  the  person  to whose account the credit stands on the books of said
  investment company or for whose account the securities or other property
  are held by said investment company.
    2. (a) An investment company need not recognize or give any effect  to
  (1)  any  claim  to a credit standing on its books to the account of, or
  any claim to securities or other property held by it for the account of,
  any corporation, firm or association in occupied territory  or  (2)  any
  advice,  statute,  rule  or  regulation  purporting to cancel or to give
  notice of the cancellation of the authority of any person  at  the  time
  appearing  on  the  books  of  such  investment company as authorized to
  withdraw or otherwise dispose of cash, securities or other  property  of
  such corporation, firm or association, unless such investment company is
  required  so to do by appropriate process procured against it in a court
  of competent jurisdiction in  the  United  States  in  a  cause  therein
  instituted  by  or in the name of such corporation, firm or association,
  or unless the person making such claim or giving such advice or invoking
  such statute, rule or regulation, as the case may be, shall  execute  to
  such  investment  company, in form and with sureties acceptable to it, a
  bond indemnifying it from any and all liability, loss, damage, costs and
  expenses for and on account of recognizing or giving any effect to  such
  claim, advice, statute, rule or regulation.
    (b)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision  (1) the term "occupied
  territory"  shall  mean  territory  occupied  by  a  dominant  authority
  asserting  governmental,  military  or police powers of any kind in such
  territory, but not recognized by  the  United  States  as  the  de  jure
  government  of  such  territory,  and (2) the term "corporation, firm or
  association in occupied territory" shall mean  a  corporation,  firm  or
  association  which  has,  or at any time has had, a place of business in
  territory which has at any time been occupied territory.
    (c) The foregoing provisions of this subdivision  shall  be  effective
  only in cases where (1) such claim or advice purports or appears to have
  been  sent  from or is reasonably believed to have been sent pursuant to
  orders originating in, such occupied  territory  during  the  period  of
  occupation,  or  (2)  such  statute,  rule or regulation appears to have
  emanated from such dominant authority and purports to be or to have been
  in force in such occupied territory during the period of occupation.
    (d) The foregoing  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  apply  to
  claims,  advices,  statutes, rules or regulations made, given or invoked
  either prior to, or on or subsequent to the effective date of this act.
    3. An investment company need not recognize or give any  effect  to  a
  claim  of  authority  to  order  the payment or delivery of any funds or
  other property standing on its books to the credit of, or held by it for
  the account of, any person, corporation, unincorporated  association  or
  partnership,  which  claim  conflicts with a claim of authority of which
  the investment company had prior notice, unless the  person  or  persons
  asserting  such  subsequent  claim  shall  procure  a restraining order,
  injunction or other appropriate process against said investment  company
  from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States, or, in lieu
  thereof, at the option of said investment company, shall execute to said
  investment  company, in form and with sureties acceptable to it, a bond,
  indemnifying it for any and  all  liability,  loss,  damage,  costs  and
  expenses  for  or on account of any payment or delivery of such property
  by it pursuant to such subsequent  claim  of  authority  on  for  or  on
  account  of  the  dishonor  of any draft or other order of any person or
  persons asserting the  claim  of  authority  of  which  such  investment
  company  already had notice at the time the subsequent conflicting claim
  of authority is asserted by the person or persons furnishing such bond.


::: 519:acquisition_of_control_of_investment_companies.html
 
    &#167; 519.  Acquisition  of control of investment companies. 1. Subject to
  such regulations as the  superintendent  may  prescribe,  prior  to  the
  acquisition  of  control  of  an  investment  company  by  means  of the
  acquisition of the capital stock or equity interests in such  investment
  company  or  in  any  company which directly or indirectly controls such
  investment company, the acquiring company shall make written application
  to the superintendent for  permission  to  acquire  such  control.  Such
  application  shall be in such form and shall contain such information as
  the superintendent may require and such applicant, at the time of making
  such application, shall pay to the superintendent an  investigation  fee
  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.
    The  superintendent  shall disapprove the proposed exercise of control
  of an investment company if, after notice to and an  opportunity  to  be
  heard  by  the  applicant  and  such  investment  company,  he finds the
  acquisition of control  therein  contrary  to  law  or  determines  that
  disapproval  is  reasonably  necessary  to  protect the interests of the
  people of this state. In making such determination,  the  superintendent
  shall  only  consider  (a)  whether  the  character,  responsibility and
  general fitness of the company which seeks to  control  such  investment
  company  are  such  as to command confidence and warrant belief that the
  business of such investment company will  be  honestly  and  efficiently
  conducted in a manner consistent with the public interest, the interests
  of  depositors and creditors of such investment company, and (b) whether
  the exercise of control may impair the safe and  sound  conduct  of  the
  business  of  such investment company, the conservation of its assets or
  public confidence in its business. Unless the superintendent shall  have
  denied  such  application  in  writing  within ninety days of the filing
  thereof, or shall have advised  the  applicant  in  writing  before  the
  expiration  of ninety days of his determination to extend such period an
  additional sixty days, such application shall be deemed approved.
    As used  in  this  subdivision  one,  the  term  "control"  means  the
  possession,  directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
  direction of the management and policies of a person, whether  by  means
  of  the ownership of the voting stock or equity interests of such person
  or of one or more  persons  controlling  such  person,  by  means  of  a
  contractual  arrangement,  or  otherwise.  Control  shall be presumed to
  exist if any company, directly or indirectly, owns,  controls  or  holds
  with the power to vote ten per centum or more of the voting stock of any
  investment  company or of any company which owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote ten per centum  or  more  of  the  voting  stock  of  such
  investment  company,  but  no  person  shall  be  deemed  to  control an
  investment company solely by reason of his being an officer or  director
  of  such  investment  company. The superintendent may in his discretion,
  upon the application of an investment  company  or  any  company  which,
  directly  or  indirectly,  owns, controls or holds with power to vote or
  seeks to own, control or hold with power to vote  any  voting  stock  of
  such investment company, determine whether or not the ownership, control
  or  holding of such voting stock constitutes or would constitute control
  of such investment company for purposes of this section.
    The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to  (1)  a  company
  which has submitted a plan of acquisition to the superintendent pursuant
  to  subdivision  two of this section or (2) any action taken pursuant to
  article thirteen of this chapter.
    2. Any company, whether or not it is in control of the business of  an
  investment company as provided in subdivision one of this section, which
  desires  to acquire all, or substantially all of the capital stock of an
  investment company shall, together with such investment company,  submit
  in duplicate to the superintendent a written plan of acquisition of such
  stock  together  with  such  other information as the superintendent may
  determine.  Such  plan  shall   be   in   form   satisfactory   to   the
  superintendent, shall specify each investment company the stock of which
  is  to  be  acquired  by  the  company and shall prescribe the terms and
  conditions of the acquisition and the mode of carrying it  into  effect,
  including  the manner of exchanging the shares of the investment company
  for shares or other securities or cash of the company. Any such plan may
  provide for the payment of cash in lieu of the  issuance  of  fractional
  shares of the company.
    At the time of submission to the superintendent of the written plan of
  acquisition  of  stock,  an  investigation fee as prescribed pursuant to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be paid to the superintendent.
    There shall be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent with the
  plan of  acquisition  of  stock,  a  certificate  of  the  president  or
  secretary of the company, certifying that such plan has been approved by
  the  board  of  directors  or  other  governing body of his company by a
  majority vote of all the members  thereof,  and  a  certificate  of  the
  president,   secretary   or  cashier  of  the  investment  company,  the
  acquisition  of  all  the  capital  stock  of  which  is  provided  for,
  certifying that such plan has been approved by the board of directors of
  his  corporation by a majority vote of all the members thereof, and that
  such  plan  was  thereafter  submitted  to  the  stockholders  of   such
  corporation  at  a  meeting thereof held upon notice of at least fifteen
  days, specifying  the  time,  place  and  object  of  such  meeting  and
  addressed to each stockholder at the address appearing upon the books of
  the  corporation  and  published at least once a week for two successive
  weeks in one newspaper in the county in which such corporation  has  its
  principal place of business and that such plan has been approved at such
  meeting  by  the  vote of the stockholders owning at least two-thirds in
  amount of the stock of such corporation.
    The superintendent shall approve or disapprove of a proposed  plan  of
  acquisition  within one hundred twenty days after the submission of such
  plan of acquisition to him, and in determining whether or not to approve
  any such plan the  superintendent  shall  take  into  consideration  the
  declaration  of  policy contained in section ten of this chapter. If the
  superintendent   shall   approve   such   plan   of   acquisition,   the
  superintendent  shall file the plan, together with such certificates and
  the original of the approval of the superintendent, in the office of the
  superintendent. Upon such filing in the office of the superintendent the
  plan, and the acquisitions provided for therein, shall become effective,
  unless a later date is specified in the plan, in which  event  the  plan
  and such acquisitions shall become effective upon such later date.
    Any stockholder of any such corporation, entitled to vote on such plan
  of  acquisition,  who  does  not assent thereto shall, subject to and by
  complying with section six thousand twenty-two of this chapter, have the
  right to receive payment of the fair value of his shares and  the  other
  rights and benefits provided by such section.
    The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to any action taken
  pursuant to article thirteen of this chapter.
    3.  For  a period of six months from the date of qualification thereof
  and for such  additional  period  of  time  as  the  superintendent  may
  prescribe  in writing, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
  a transfer of control by operation of law to the  legal  representative,
  as hereinafter defined, of one who has control of an investment company.
  Thereafter,  such  legal representative shall comply with the provisions
  of subdivision one of this section. The provisions of subdivision one of
  this section shall be applicable  to  an  application  made  under  such
  section by a legal representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative,"  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4. For purposes of this section the term "company" shall be given  the
  same  meaning  as  is contained in its definition in section one hundred
  forty-one of this chapter.
    5. Notwithstanding the provisions  of  subdivision  three  of  section
  two-a  of  this chapter, when applying this section to limited liability
  investment companies, the term "capital stock"  shall  mean  the  equity
  interest  of  a  member  as  set  forth  in  the  company's  articles of
  organization or, in the absence of such a provision, the equity interest
  represented by a member's right to a proportionate share of the  profits
  of the company.


::: 520:savings_clause.html
 
    &#167; 520.  Savings  clause.  Nothing  in  this article contained shall be
  deemed to require the  reincorporation  of  any  corporation  heretofore
  organized under the provisions of article seven of chapter three hundred
  and  sixty-nine  of  the laws of nineteen hundred fourteen, entitled "An
  act in relation to banking corporations, and individuals,  partnerships,
  unincorporated  associations  and  corporations under the supervision of
  the banking department," constituting chapter two  of  the  consolidated
  laws,  or under the provisions of said article seven of said chapter two
  of the consolidated laws, or under the provisions of said article  seven
  of  said  chapter  as  amended,  nor  to  alter  or  affect  any rights,
  privileges, powers, benefits, or immunities granted to such corporations
  by the provisions of any law of this state. Such corporations shall have
  all of the rights, privileges, powers, benefits and immunities  provided
  by  any  laws of this state with the same effect as if such corporations
  were referred to in such laws as organized under this  article;  and  no
  further  amendment  to  any  such  laws  shall  be required to give such
  corporations such rights, privileges, powers, benefits  and  immunities.
  Except  as in this article otherwise provided such corporations shall be
  subject to all of the obligations and  duties  of  investment  companies
  organized  under  the  provisions of this article, and such corporations
  shall  have  all  of  the  rights,  privileges,  powers,  benefits   and
  immunities by this article granted to such companies.


::: 550:incorporation_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 550. Incorporation; organization certificate. When authorized by the
  superintendent  as provided in article two of this chapter, five or more
  persons may form a corporation to be known as a mutual trust  investment
  company.  Such persons shall subscribe and acknowledge and submit to the
  superintendent  at   the   superintendent's   office   an   organization
  certificate in duplicate which shall specifically state:
    1.  The  name  by  which  the mutual trust investment company is to be
  known and the investment purpose of its formation  under  the  following
  section five hundred fifty-one.
    2. The place where its principal office is to be located.
    3. The amount of its capital stock and the number of shares into which
  such capital stock shall be divided.
    4.  The  full  name,  residence and post-office address of each of the
  incorporators and the number of shares subscribed for by each.
    5. The term of its existence, which may be perpetual.
    6. The number of its directors, which shall not be less than five  and
  the  names and addresses of the persons who shall be its directors until
  the first annual meeting of stockholders.
    Such certificate may provide for the manner in which the stock of  the
  corporation may be transferred and for the number of directors necessary
  to constitute a quorum.
    When  the  superintendent  shall  have  endorsed  his  approval on the
  organization certificate as provided in article two of this chapter, the
  corporate existence shall begin.


::: 551:investment_powers.html
 
    &#167; 551. Investment powers. A mutual trust investment company may invest
  in such investments as the company may select in its discretion.
    The amount of stock of any corporation which may be held by any mutual
  trust  investment company shall not exceed five per centum of the number
  of shares of stock of  such  corporation  outstanding  at  the  time  of
  investment by such mutual trust investment company.


::: 552:accountability.html
 
    &#167; 552.  Accountability. A mutual trust investment company shall not be
  responsible for ascertaining the investment powers of any fiduciary  who
  may  purchase its stocks or shares and shall not be liable for accepting
  funds from a fiduciary in violation of the  restrictions  in  any  will,
  deed  or  other  instrument  in  the absence of actual knowledge of such
  violation, and shall be accountable only to the fiduciaries who are  the
  owners of its stocks or shares.


::: 553:investment_by_fiduciaries_in_shares.html
 
    &#167; 553.  Investment  by fiduciaries in shares. Unless the instrument or
  the order, decree or judgment under which moneys are held in a fiduciary
  capacity prohibits such investment, an eligible fiduciary or fiduciaries
  may invest and reinvest moneys so held in shares of stock of one or more
  mutual trust investment companies as it may determine.
    The net aggregate amount of  moneys  of  any  estate,  trust  or  fund
  invested in shares of a mutual trust investment company shall not at any
  time  exceed  the maximum amount permitted by such rules and regulations
  as may be promulgated by the superintendent of financial services.
    "An eligible fiduciary or fiduciaries" shall be deemed to mean a trust
  company or a national banking association having  its  principal  office
  within the state of New York and acting either as sole fiduciary or with
  one or more co-fiduciaries.


::: 554:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 554.  Definitions.  In  this  article,  unless the context otherwise
  requires:
    1. "Authorized insurer" and "insurance contract" have  the  respective
  meanings assigned to them by the insurance law.
    2.  "Bank"  means a bank, trust company, private banker, savings bank,
  savings and loan association, credit union, investment company organized
  under article twelve of this chapter and authorized to accept  deposits,
  national  bank,  federal  savings  association, federal credit union, or
  out-of-state state bank, as such term is defined in subdivision  two  of
  section  two  hundred  twenty-two  of  this chapter, having a principal,
  branch or trust office in this state.
    3. "Insurance agent" and "insurance broker"  means,  respectively,  an
  insurance  agent  or  insurance  broker  duly licensed as such under the
  insurance law.
    4. "Insured"  means  a  person  who  enters  into  a  premium  finance
  agreement  with a premium finance agency or makes and delivers a premium
  finance agreement to, or to the order of, an insurance agent or  broker,
  whether  or  not he is insured under an insurance contract, premiums for
  which  are  advanced  or  to  be  advanced  under  the  premium  finance
  agreement.
    5. "Lending institution" means a bank or a lender licensed pursuant to
  article nine of this chapter.
    6.  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
  trust, partnership or association, two or more persons having a joint or
  common interest, or any other legal or commercial entity.
    7. "Premium finance agency" means:
    (a) a person engaged, in whole or in part, in the business of entering
  into premium finance agreements with insureds, including a  bank  if  so
  engaged; or
    (b)  a  person  engaged,  in  whole  or  in  part,  in the business of
  acquiring premium finance agreements from insurance agents or brokers or
  other premium finance agencies, including a bank if so  engaged  and  an
  insurance  agent  or  broker who is licensed as a premium finance agency
  and who holds premium finance agreements made and delivered by  insureds
  to him or his order.
    8.  "Premium  finance  agreement"  means  a  promissory  note or other
  written agreement by which an insured promises or agrees to pay  to,  or
  to  the  order of, either a premium finance agency or an insurance agent
  or broker the amount advanced or to be advanced under the  agreement  to
  an  authorized  insurer or to an insurance agent or broker in payment of
  premiums on an insurance contract, together with  a  service  charge  as
  authorized  and  limited  by  law.  If  the premium finance agreement is
  payable to, or to the  order  of,  an  insurance  agent  or  broker  not
  licensed  as a premium finance agency, payments under the agreement must
  be payable at the office of  a  premium  finance  agency  named  in  the
  agreement,  to  whom  the  agreement  is  by  its  terms  to  be  and is
  subsequently assigned. The term "premium  finance  agreement"  does  not
  include  a  retail  instalment  credit agreement which complies with the
  provisions of paragraph  (b)  of  subdivision  eleven  of  section  four
  hundred thirteen of the personal property law.
    9. "Superintendent" means the superintendent of financial services.


::: 555-a:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 555-a.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a change of control of the business of a licensee. Prior to
  any change of control, the person desirous of acquiring control  of  the
  business   of   a   licensee  shall  make  written  application  to  the
  superintendent and pay an investigation fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section   eighteen-a   of   this  chapter  to  the  superintendent.  The
  application shall contain such information  as  the  superintendent,  by
  rule  or  regulation,  may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the
  purpose of making the determination required by subdivision two of  this
  section.
    2.  The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the proposed change
  of  control  of  a  licensee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions   of
  subdivision  one  of section five hundred fifty-six of this article. The
  superintendent shall approve or disapprove the  application  in  writing
  within  ninety  days  after  the  date the application is filed with the
  superintendent.
    3. For a period of six months from the date of  qualification  thereof
  and  for  such  additional  period  of  time  as  the superintendent may
  prescribe, in writing, the provisions of subdivisions  one  and  two  of
  this  section  shall  not apply to a transfer of control by operation of
  law to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who  has
  control  of  a  licensee.  Thereafter,  such  legal representative shall
  comply with the provisions of subdivisions one and two of this  section.
  The  provisions  of  subdivisions  one  and two of this section shall be
  applicable to  an  application  made  under  such  section  by  a  legal
  representative.
    The  term  "legal  representative",  for the purposes of this section,
  shall mean one duly appointed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction  to
  act  as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator or
  receiver, including one who succeeds  a  legal  representative  and  one
  acting   in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with  the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4. As used  in  this  section:  (a)  the  term  "person"  includes  an
  individual,   partnership,   corporation,   association   or  any  other
  organization, and (b) the term "control" means the possession,  directly
  or  indirectly,  of  the  power  to direct or cause the direction of the
  management and policies of a licensee, whether through the ownership  of
  voting  stock  of  such  licensee,  the ownership of voting stock of any
  person which  possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.  Control  shall  be
  presumed  to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls
  or holds with power to vote ten per centum or more of the  voting  stock
  of  any  licensee  or  of  any person which owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote ten per  centum  or  more  of  the  voting  stock  of  any
  licensee,  but no person shall be deemed to control a licensee solely by
  reason of being an officer or director of such licensee or  person.  The
  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application of a licensee
  or  any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls or holds with
  power to vote or seeks to own, control or hold with power  to  vote  any
  voting  stock  of such licensee, determine whether or not the ownership,
  control or holding of such voting stock constitutes or would  constitute
  control of such licensee for purposes of this section.


::: 555:license.html
 
    &#167; 555.  License.  1.  No  person  except  a  lending institution or an
  authorized insurer shall engage in the business  of  a  premium  finance
  agency  without  a license therefor obtained from the superintendent, as
  provided in this article.
    2. Application for license required under this  article  shall  be  in
  writing, and in the form prescribed by the superintendent.
    3.  When  an applicant has more than one office, separate applications
  for license shall be made for each such office.
    4. At the time of filing an application for a license,  the  applicant
  shall  pay to the superintendent an investigation fee. The investigation
  fee shall be as  prescribed  pursuant  to  section  eighteen-a  of  this
  chapter,  except that, when an applicant files applications for licenses
  for three or more offices at the same time, the total investigation  fee
  for  all  the  applications  shall  be three times the amount prescribed
  pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter.


::: 556:action_by_superintendent_on_application.html
 
    &#167; 556.  Action by superintendent on application. 1. Within ninety days
  after the filing of an application for a license accompanied by  payment
  of  the  fees  for  license  and investigation, the superintendent shall
  issue the license, or the superintendent may refuse to issue the license
  if  he  shall  find  that  the  financial  responsibility,   experience,
  character  and general fitness of the applicant or any person associated
  with the applicant are not such as to  command  the  confidence  of  the
  community  and to warrant the belief that the business will be conducted
  honestly, fairly and efficiently within the purposes and intent of  this
  article.  For  the  purpose  of this subdivision, the applicant shall be
  deemed to  include  all  the  members  of  the  applicant  if  it  is  a
  partnership  or  unincorporated  association,  and all the stockholders,
  officers and directors of the applicant if it  is  a  corporation.  Such
  license  to engage in business in accordance with the provisions of this
  article at the location specified in the application shall  be  executed
  in  triplicate  by  the  superintendent  and  he shall transmit one copy
  thereof to the applicant, file a copy in the office of the department of
  financial services, and file a copy in the office of the  clerk  of  the
  county in which is located the place designated in such license.
    2.  If  the superintendent refuses to issue a license, he shall notify
  the applicant of the denial, return to the applicant the sum paid  as  a
  license  fee,  but  retain  the  investigation fee to cover the costs of
  investigating the applicant.
    3. Each license issued hereunder shall remain in full force and effect
  until it is surrendered by the  licensee  or  revoked  or  suspended  as
  provided in this article.
    4. Only one office may be maintained under each license, but more than
  one license may be issued to the same licensee pursuant to this article.
    5.  Any  person engaged in the business of a premium finance agency on
  the date this act takes effect may continue in operation  in  accordance
  with  the  provisions of this article but must obtain a license for each
  office at which he engages in the business of a premium  finance  agency
  by January first, nineteen hundred sixty-one.


::: 557:license_provisions_and_posting.html
 
    &#167; 557.  License  provisions  and posting. Such license shall state the
  name  and  address  of  the  licensee,  and  if  the   licensee   be   a
  co-partnership  or association, the names of the members thereof, and if
  a corporation the date and place  of  its  incorporation.  Such  license
  shall  be  kept  conspicuously  posted in the office of the licensee and
  shall not be transferable or assignable.


::: 558:change_of_location.html
 
    &#167; 558.  Change  of location. Before any licensee changes any office of
  his to another location, he shall give written  notice  thereof  to  the
  superintendent, who shall without charge issue an endorsement indicating
  the  change and the date thereof, which endorsement shall be attached to
  the license for such office and be authority for the  operation  of  the
  business under such license at such new location.


::: 559:grounds_for_revocation_of_license_procedure.html
 
    &#167; 559.   Grounds   for   revocation  of  license;  procedure.  1.  The
  superintendent may  forthwith  revoke  or  suspend  any  license  issued
  hereunder if he shall find that:
    (a)  The  licensee has failed to pay the annual license fee or any sum
  of money lawfully demanded, or to comply with  any  demand,  ruling,  or
  requirement  of  the superintendent lawfully made pursuant to and within
  the authority of this article;
    (b) The licensee has violated any provision of this article,  the  act
  of  congress  entitled  "Truth  in  Lending  Act"  and  the  regulations
  thereunder, as such act and regulations may from time to time be amended
  or any rule or regulation lawfully made by the superintendent under  and
  within the authority of this article;
    (c)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the  original  application  for  such  license,  clearly  would  have
  warranted  the  superintendent  in  refusing  originally  to  issue such
  license.
    2. The superintendent  may  revoke  or  suspend  only  the  particular
  license  with  respect to which grounds for revocation or suspension may
  occur or exist, or, if he shall find that such grounds for revocation or
  suspension are of general application to all offices, or  to  more  than
  one office, operated by such licensee, he shall revoke or suspend all of
  the  licenses issued to such licensee or such number of licenses as such
  grounds apply to, as the case may be.
    3. Any licensee  may  surrender  any  license  by  delivering  to  the
  superintendent  written  notice that he thereby surrenders such license,
  but such surrender shall not affect such licensee's  civil  or  criminal
  liability for acts committed prior to such surrender.
    4.  No  revocation  or  suspension  or  surrender of any license shall
  impair or affect the obligation of an insured under any  lawful  premium
  finance agreement previously acquired or held by the licensee.
    5.  Every  license  issued  hereunder shall remain in force and effect
  until the same shall have been surrendered,  revoked,  or  suspended  in
  accordance  with  the provisions of this article, but the superintendent
  shall have authority to reinstate suspended licenses  or  to  issue  new
  licenses to a licensee whose license or licenses shall have been revoked
  if  no  fact or condition then exists which clearly would have warranted
  the superintendent in refusing originally to issue  such  license  under
  this article.
    6.  Whenever  the  superintendent  shall  revoke  or suspend a license
  issued  pursuant  to  this  article,  he  shall  forthwith  execute   in
  triplicate a written order to that effect. The superintendent shall file
  one  copy of such order in the office of the department, file another in
  the office of the clerk of the county in  which  is  located  the  place
  designated  in  such license and forthwith serve the third copy upon the
  licensee, which order may be reviewed in the manner provided by  article
  seventy-eight  of  the  civil  practice  law  and  rules.  Such  special
  proceeding for review as authorized by this section  must  be  commenced
  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  such  order  of suspension or
  revocation.
    7. The superintendent may, on good cause shown, or where  there  is  a
  substantial  risk of public harm, suspend any license issued pursuant to
  this  article  for  a  period  not  exceeding   thirty   days,   pending
  investigation.  "Good  cause",  as used in this subdivision, shall exist
  only when the  licensee  has  defaulted  or  is  likely  to  default  in
  performing   its  financial  engagements  or  engages  in  dishonest  or
  inequitable practices which may cause substantial harm  to  the  persons
  afforded the protection of this article.


::: 560:investigations_and_examinations.html
 
    &#167; 560.  Investigations  and  examinations. 1. The superintendent shall
  have the power to make such investigations as he shall deem necessary to
  determine whether any licensee or any other person has violated  any  of
  the  provisions  of  this article, or whether any licensee has conducted
  himself in such manner as would justify the revocation of  his  license,
  and  to  the extent necessary therefor, he may require the attendance of
  and examine any person under oath, and shall have the  power  to  compel
  the production of all relevant books, records, accounts, and documents.
    2.  The  superintendent shall have the power to make such examinations
  of the books, records, accounts and documents used in  the  business  of
  any  licensee  as  he shall deem necessary to determine whether any such
  licensee has violated any of the provisions of this article.
    3. The  expenses  incurred  in  making  any  examination  pursuant  to
  subdivision  two  of  this  section five hundred sixty shall be assessed
  against and paid by the licensee so examined, except that traveling  and
  subsistence  expenses  so  incurred shall be charged against and paid by
  licensees in such proportions as the superintendent shall deem just  and
  reasonable,  and  such  proportionate  charges  shall  be  added  to the
  assessment of the other expenses incurred upon  each  examination.  Upon
  written  notice  by  the  superintendent  of  the  total  amount of such
  assessment, the licensee shall become liable  for  and  shall  pay  such
  assessment to the superintendent.
    4.   All   reports   of   examinations  and  investigations,  and  all
  correspondence  and  memoranda  concerning  or  arising  out   of   such
  examinations or investigations, including any duly authenticated copy or
  copies  thereof  in  the possession of any licensee or the department of
  financial services, shall be confidential communications, shall  not  be
  subject to subpoena and shall not be made public unless, in the judgment
  of the superintendent, the ends of justice and the public advantage will
  be  subserved  by the publication thereof, in which event he may publish
  or authorize the publication of a copy  of  any  such  report  or  other
  material  referred  to in this subdivision four, or any part thereof, in
  such manner as he may deem proper.


::: 561:regulations_and_rulings.html
 
    &#167; 561.   Regulations   and   rulings.  The  superintendent  is  hereby
  authorized and empowered to make such  general  rules  and  regulations,
  conduct  hearings  and  make  such specific rulings, orders, demands and
  findings as may be necessary for the  proper  conduct  of  the  business
  authorized and licensed under and for the enforcement of this article.


::: 563:violations_and_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 563.  Violations and penalties. 1. Any person, including any member,
  officer,  director  or  employee  of  a  licensee,   who   violates   or
  participates  in  the violation of any provision of this article, or who
  knowingly makes any incorrect  statement  of  a  material  fact  in  any
  application,  report or statement filed pursuant to this article, or who
  knowingly omits to  state  any  material  fact  necessary  to  give  the
  superintendent  any  information  lawfully required by him or refuses to
  permit any lawful investigation or examination, shall  be  guilty  of  a
  misdemeanor  and,  upon  conviction,  shall  be fined not more than five
  hundred dollars or imprisoned for not more than six months or  both,  in
  the discretion of the court.
    2.  A  premium  finance agency's knowingly taking or receiving from or
  charging an insured a greater charge than  authorized  in  this  article
  shall be held and adjudged a forfeiture of all charges which the premium
  finance  agreement  carries with it or which have been agreed to be paid
  thereon, and if a greater charge has been paid by an insured, the person
  paying the same or his legal representative may recover from the premium
  finance agency twice the entire amount  of  the  charges  thus  paid  if
  action is brought within two years from the time of such payment.
    3.  No  licensee  shall  make,  directly  or  indirectly, orally or in
  writing, or by any method, practice or device, a representation that  he
  is  licensed  under  the  banking  law except that a licensee may make a
  representation that he is licensed as a premium finance agency under the
  banking law and is licensed to finance insurance premiums.


::: 565:licensees_books_and_records_reports.html
 
    &#167; 565.  Licensee's  books  and records; reports. 1. The licensee shall
  keep and use in his business such books, accounts and  records  as  will
  enable   the  superintendent  to  determine  whether  such  licensee  is
  complying with the provisions of this article and  with  the  rules  and
  regulations   lawfully  made  by  the  superintendent  hereunder.  Every
  licensee shall preserve such  books,  accounts  and  records,  including
  cards used in a card system, if any, for at least six years after making
  the  final  entry  in  respect to any premium finance agreement recorded
  therein;   provided,   however,   the   preservation   of   photographic
  reproductions  thereof  or records in photographic form shall constitute
  compliance with this requirement.
    2. Each licensee shall annually on or before the first day of February
  file a report with the superintendent giving  such  information  as  the
  superintendent may require concerning the business and operations during
  the preceding calendar year of each licensed place of business conducted
  by  the  licensee  within the state under the authority of this article.
  Upon good cause shown by a licensee, the superintendent may  extend  the
  time  for  filing  such report for a period not in excess of sixty days.
  Such report shall be subscribed and affirmed as  true  by  the  licensee
  under  the  penalties  of  perjury  and be in the form prescribed by the
  superintendent who  may  make  and  publish  annually  an  analysis  and
  recapitulation  of such reports. In addition to such annual reports, the
  superintendent may require  of  licensees  such  additional  regular  or
  special  reports  as  he may deem necessary to the proper supervision of
  licensees under this article.  Such additional reports shall be  in  the
  form  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  and  shall  be subscribed and
  affirmed as true under the penalties of perjury.


::: 566:insurance_agents_and_brokers_acquisition_by_premium_finance_agencies_of_premium_finance_agreements.html
 
    &#167; 566.  Insurance  agents  and brokers; acquisition by premium finance
  agencies of premium finance agreements. 1. An insurance agent or  broker
  may  be  licensed  as  a  premium finance agency in accordance with this
  article.
    2. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of  the  personal  property
  law, banking law or other law:
    (a) No premium finance agency, and no employee of such an agency shall
  pay,  allow  or  offer  to  pay  or allow in any manner whatsoever to an
  insurance agent or broker or any  employee  of  an  insurance  agent  or
  broker, or to any other person, either as an inducement to the financing
  of  any  insurance  policy  with the premium finance agency or after any
  such policy has been financed, any rebate whatsoever,  either  from  the
  service  charge for financing specified in the premium finance agreement
  or otherwise, or shall give or offer to give any valuable  consideration
  or  inducement of any kind directly or indirectly, other than an article
  of merchandise not exceeding  one  dollar  in  value  which  shall  have
  thereon  the  advertisement of the premium finance agency, but a premium
  finance agency may purchase  or  otherwise  acquire  a  premium  finance
  agreement,  provided  that  it conforms to this article in all respects,
  from an insurance agent or broker or another premium finance agency with
  recourse  against  the  agent,  broker  or  agency  on  such  terms  and
  conditions as may be mutually agreed upon; and
    (b) No filing of the assignment or notice thereof to the insured shall
  be  necessary  to  the  validity  of the written assignment of a premium
  finance  agreement  as  against  creditors  or  subsequent   purchasers,
  pledgees or encumbrances of the assignor.


::: 567:form_and_content_of_premium_finance_agreements.html
 
    &#167; 567.  Form  and content of premium finance agreements.  1. A premium
  finance agreement shall be in writing and  dated  on  the  date  of  its
  signature  by  the  insured;  the printed portion thereof shall be in at
  least eight point type.
    2. It shall contain the entire agreement of the parties  with  respect
  to  the insurance contract, the premiums for which are advanced or to be
  advanced under it, and:
    (a) At its top, the words PREMIUM FINANCE AGREEMENT in  at  least  ten
  point bold type; and
    (b)  A  notice  in at least eight point bold type, reading as follows:
  NOTICE: 1. Do not sign this agreement  before  you  read  it  or  if  it
  contains  any blank space. 2. You are entitled to a completely filled in
  copy of this agreement. 3. Under the law, you have the right to pay  off
  in  advance the full amount due and under certain conditions to obtain a
  partial refund of the service charge.
    3. A premium finance agreement shall:
    (a) Contain the name and place of business of the insurance  agent  or
  broker, if any, negotiating the related insurance contract, the name and
  residence  or  the place of business of the insured as specified by him,
  the name and place of business of the premium finance agency which is to
  hold or acquire the agreement and to which instalment or other  payments
  are  to  be  made, a description of the insurance contract, the premiums
  for which are advanced or to be advanced under the  agreement,  and  the
  amount of the premiums for such insurance contract; and
    (b)  Set  forth  the  items  required  to  be  disclosed by the act of
  congress entitled "Truth in Lending Act" and the regulations thereunder,
  as such act and regulations may from time to time be amended.
    4. No premium finance agreement shall be signed by an insured when  it
  contains  any  blank  space  to  be  filled in after it has been signed;
  however, if any insurance contract, the premiums for which are  advanced
  or  to  be advanced under the agreement, has not been issued at the time
  of its signature by the insured and it so  provides,  the  name  of  the
  authorized  insurer  by  whom  such insurance contract is issued and the
  policy number and the due date of the first instalment may be left blank
  and later inserted in the original of the agreement after  it  has  been
  signed by the insured.


::: 568:limitation_on_service_and_other_charges.html
 
    &#167; 568.  Limitation  on service and other charges. 1. A premium finance
  agency shall not, except as otherwise provided  by  law,  impose,  take,
  receive  from,  reserve  or  charge  an insured greater charges than are
  permitted by this article.
    2. A premium finance agency, including an insurance  agent  or  broker
  licensed as such, may, in a premium finance agreement, contract for, and
  if  so  contracted  for, the holder of the agreement may charge, receive
  and collect a service charge, for financing or arranging  the  financing
  of  premiums  under  the  agreement, computed as provided in subdivision
  four.
    3. An insurance agent or broker not  licensed  as  a  premium  finance
  agency may, in a premium finance agreement which is payable to the agent
  or  broker  or  his  order at the office of a premium finance agency and
  which is endorsed or otherwise transferred or assigned to such a premium
  finance agency, contract for and, if  so  contracted  for,  the  premium
  finance  agency  holding  the  agreement may charge, receive and collect
  charges for financing or arranging the financing of premiums  under  the
  agreement, computed as provided in subdivision four.
    4.  (a)  The  service  charge  provided  for  in this section shall be
  computed on the principal balance of the premium finance agreement  from
  the inception date of the insurance contract, the premiums for which are
  advanced  or to be advanced under the agreement, or from the due date of
  such premiums, disregarding any period of grace or  credit  allowed  for
  payment  thereof, to and including the date when the final instalment of
  the premium finance agreement is  payable,  at  not  exceeding  fourteen
  dollars  per one hundred dollars per annum, plus an additional charge of
  ten dollars per premium finance agreement, which additional charge  need
  not be refunded upon cancellation or prepayment, provided, however, that
  no  insurance  agent or broker or premium finance agency shall induce an
  insured  to  become  obligated  under  more  than  one  premium  finance
  agreement for the purpose of obtaining more than one additional charge.
    (b)  In computing the service charge permitted by this subdivision, if
  the premium finance agreement is executed later than thirty  days  after
  the  inception  date,  there  shall  be deducted from the amount of such
  service charge an amount which bears the same proportion to such service
  charge, as (i) the number of days  from  the  thirtieth  day  after  the
  inception  date  until  the  day  of  execution  of  the premium finance
  agreement, bears to (ii) the number of days from the inception  date  to
  the  date  when the final instalment of the premium finance agreement is
  payable. No deduction shall be required under this  paragraph,  however,
  if  the  amount  thereof  is less than one dollar.  For purposes of this
  paragraph the term "inception date" shall mean the inception date of the
  insurance contract being financed, or the due date of the premium  being
  financed (disregarding any period of grace or credit allowed for payment
  thereof), which ever shall be earlier.
    (c)  Such service charge shall be computed on the principal balance of
  a premium finance agreement payable in  successive  monthly  instalments
  substantially  equal  in  amount  for a period of one year. On a premium
  finance agreement providing for instalments extending for a period  less
  than  or  greater  than  one  year, the service charge shall be computed
  proportionately.
    (d) When a premium finance agreement provides for unequal or irregular
  instalments, the service charge shall be computed at the effective  rate
  provided  for  in  paragraph  (a), having due regard for the schedule of
  instalments.
    (e) The foregoing charges shall be inclusive of all  charges  incident
  to  the  premium  finance  agreement  and  for  the  extension of credit
  provided for therein.
    (f) The foregoing paragraphs of this subdivision  four  apply  if  the
  premiums  under  only  one  insurance  contract  are  advanced  or to be
  advanced under a premium finance agreement; if premiums under more  than
  one  insurance  contract  are  advanced  or  are  to be advanced under a
  premium  finance  agreement,  the service charge shall be computed as if
  the premiums under each  insurance  contract  were  advanced  or  to  be
  advanced under separate premium finance agreements.


::: 569:delinquency_collection_and_cancellation_charges_attorneys_fees.html
 
    &#167; 569.  Delinquency,  collection  and cancellation charges; attorney's
  fees.  1. A premium finance agreement may provide for the payment by the
  insured of a delinquency and collection charge  on  each  instalment  in
  default  for  a  period  of  not less than five days in an amount of one
  dollar to a maximum not in excess of five per centum of such instalment,
  provided  however,  that  when  any  personal,  household  or   domestic
  insurance  contract  are  listed  in  the agreement the charge shall not
  exceed five dollars and, provided that only  one  such  delinquency  and
  collection  charge may be collected on any such instalment regardless of
  the period during which it  remains  in  default  and,  if  the  default
  results  in  the  cancellation  of  any  personal, household or domestic
  insurance contract listed in the agreement, the  agreement  may  provide
  for  the  payment  by  the insured of a cancellation charge equal to the
  difference between any delinquency  and  collection  charge  imposed  in
  respect to the instalment in default and five dollars.
    2.  A  premium  finance  agreement may also provide for the payment of
  attorney's fees not exceeding twenty per centum of the  amount  due  and
  payable  under  the  agreement  if  it  is referred for collection to an
  attorney not a salaried employee of the premium finance  agency  holding
  the agreement.
    3.  Notwithstanding  the provisions of this section, a premium finance
  agency shall  not  take  or  receive  from  or  charge  an  insured  any
  cancellation  charge  or  attorney's  fees unless, within ten days after
  default in the payment of any instalment of a premium finance agreement,
  the agency has mailed a notice of the default  to  the  insured  at  his
  address  as  shown on the agreement and to any insurance agent or broker
  named therein at his place of business as shown therein.


::: 570:restrictions_on_premium_finance_agreements.html
 
    &#167; 570.  Restrictions  on  premium  finance  agreements.  1. No premium
  finance agreement shall contain any provision by which:
    (a) In the absence of default of  the  insured,  the  premium  finance
  agency  holding  the  agreement  may, arbitrarily and without reasonable
  cause, accelerate the maturity of any part or all of  the  amount  owing
  thereunder;
    (b) A power of attorney is given to confess judgment in this state; or
    (c)  The insured relieves the insurance agent or broker or the premium
  finance agency holding the agreement from liability for any legal rights
  or remedies that the insured may otherwise have  against  the  insurance
  agent or broker.
    2.  No person may use a premium finance agreement in a manner designed
  to evade any requirement of article seventy-eight of the insurance law.
    3. Every person or premium finance agency that enters into  a  premium
  finance  agreement,  as  such  terms  are  defined  pursuant  to article
  twelve-B of this chapter, shall file in the office of the superintendent
  of financial services, on or before the first day of March, a statement,
  to be known as its annual statement, verified by the oath  of  at  least
  two  of  its principal officers, showing its condition at the end of the
  preceding calendar year. The statement shall be in such form  and  shall
  contain  such  other matters as the superintendent of financial services
  shall prescribe. In addition  to  any  other  requirements,  the  annual
  statement shall specify the total number, aggregate face amount and life
  settlement   proceeds   of,  policies  settled  during  the  immediately
  preceding calendar year, together with a breakdown of the information by
  policy issue year.


::: 571:delivery_of_copy_of_premium_finance_agreement.html
 
    &#167; 571.  Delivery  of copy of premium finance agreement. Before the due
  date of the first instalment payable under a premium finance  agreement,
  the  insurance agent or broker or the premium finance agency holding the
  agreement shall deliver to the insured, or mail to him at his address as
  shown in the agreement, a copy thereof or, if  the  agreement  contained
  any  blank  space when it was signed by the insured and such blank space
  was subsequently filled  in  in  accordance  with  subdivision  four  of
  section  five hundred sixty-seven, a copy of the agreement, as so filled
  in.


::: 572:notice_of_assignment_payments.html
 
    &#167; 572.  Notice  of assignment; payments. Unless the insured has notice
  of actual or intended assignment of a premium finance agreement, payment
  thereunder by him to the last known holder of  the  agreement  shall  be
  binding upon all subsequent holders or assignees.


::: 573:statement_of_account_receipts.html
 
    &#167; 573.  Statement  of  account;  receipts.  1.  At  any time after its
  execution,  but  not  later  than  one  year  after  the  last   payment
  thereunder, a premium finance agency holding a premium finance agreement
  shall,  upon  written  request  of  the  insured,  give or mail to him a
  written statement of the dates and amounts of  payments  and  the  total
  amount,  if  any,  unpaid thereunder. Such a statement shall be supplied
  once each year without charge; if any additional statement is  requested
  the  premium  finance agency shall supply such statement at a charge not
  exceeding one dollar for  each  additional  statement  so  supplied.  An
  insured shall be given a receipt for a payment when made in cash.
    2.  After  the  payment  of all sums for which an insured is obligated
  under a premium finance agreement, and  upon  his  written  demand,  the
  premium  finance  agency holding the agreement shall deliver, or mail to
  the insured at his  last  known  address  such  one  or  more  good  and
  sufficient  instruments  as  may  be necessary to acknowledge payment in
  full and to  release  all  interests  in  or  rights  to  the  insurance
  contracts,  the  premiums  for  which are advanced or are to be advanced
  under the agreement.


::: 574:credit_upon_anticipation_of_payments.html
 
    &#167; 574.  Credit  upon anticipation of payments.  1. Notwithstanding the
  provisions of any premium finance agreement to the contrary, any insured
  may pay it in full  at  any  time  before  the  maturity  of  the  final
  instalment  of  the balance thereof and, if he does so and the agreement
  included an amount for service charge, shall receive and be entitled  to
  receive for such anticipation a refund credit thereon.
    2.  The  amount  of any such refund credit shall represent at least as
  great a proportion of the service charge, if any,  as  the  sum  of  the
  periodic  balances  after the month in which prepayment is made bears to
  the sum of all periodic balances under the schedule  of  instalments  in
  the  agreement.  Such  refund  shall  be  computed in the service charge
  exclusive of the additional charge.  Where  the  amount  of  the  refund
  credit  for  anticipation  of payment is less than one dollar, no refund
  need be made.


::: 575:refinancing.html
 
    &#167; 575.  Refinancing. A premium finance agency may, upon agreement with
  the insured, extend the  scheduled  due  date  or  defer  the  scheduled
  payment  of  all or of any part of any instalment or instalments payable
  thereunder.  The agreement for such extension or deferment  must  be  in
  writing  and  signed  by the parties thereto. The premium finance agency
  may charge and contract for the payment  of  an  extension  or  deferral
  charge  by the insured and collect and receive the same, but such charge
  may not exceed an amount equal  to  one  per  centum  per  month  simple
  interest  on  the  amount  of  the  instalment  or  instalments, or part
  thereof, extended or deferred for the period of extension  or  deferral.
  Such period shall not exceed the period from the date when such extended
  or  deferred instalment or instalments, or part thereof, would have been
  payable in the absence of such extension or deferral, to the  date  when
  such  instalment or instalments, or part thereof, are made payable under
  the agreement of extension or deferment; except that a minimum charge of
  one dollar for the period of extension or deferral may be  made  in  any
  case where the extension or deferral charge, when computed at such rate,
  amounts to less than one dollar.


::: 576:cancellation_of_insurance_contract_upon_default.html
 
    &#167; 576.  Cancellation  of  insurance  contract  upon default. 1. When a
  premium  finance  agreement  contains  a  power  of  attorney  or  other
  authority  enabling  the  premium finance agency to cancel any insurance
  contract or contracts listed in the agreement, the insurance contract or
  contracts shall not be cancelled unless such cancellation is effectuated
  in accordance with the following provisions:
    (a) Not less than ten days written  notice  shall  be  mailed  to  the
  insured at his last known address as shown on the records of the premium
  finance  agency,  of  the intent of the premium finance agency to cancel
  the insurance contract unless the default is cured within such  ten  day
  period  and that at least three days for mailing such notice is added to
  the ten day notice. A copy of the notice of intent to cancel shall  also
  be mailed to the insurance agent or broker.
    (b)   Service  of  the  notice  of  intent  to  cancel  or  notice  of
  cancellation by mail shall be effective provided that  the  notices  are
  mailed  to  the  insured's last known address as shown on the records of
  the premium finance agency. The records of the  premium  finance  agency
  shall be presumptive evidence as to the correctness of such address.
    (c)  If  the  insurance  contract  or  contracts provide motor vehicle
  liability insurance, every such notice of cancellation shall include  in
  type or print, of which the face shall not be smaller than twelve point,
  a  statement  that  proof  of  financial  security  is  required  to  be
  maintained continuously throughout the registration period and a  notice
  prescribed by the commissioner of motor vehicles indicating the punitive
  effects  of  failure  to maintain continuous proof of financial security
  and actions which may be taken by the insured to avoid punitive effects.
    (d) After the notice in paragraph (a) above has expired,  the  premium
  finance  agency  may thereafter, in the name of the insured, cancel such
  insurance contract by mailing to the insurer a  notice  of  cancellation
  stating when thereafter the policy shall be cancelled, and the insurance
  contract  shall  be cancelled as if such notice of cancellation had been
  submitted by the insured himself, but without requiring  the  return  of
  the  insurance contract. A copy of the notice of cancellation shall also
  be mailed to the insured.
    (e) All statutory, regulatory and contractual  restrictions  providing
  that  the insured may not cancel his insurance contract unless he or the
  insurer first satisfies such restrictions by giving a prescribed  notice
  to  a  governmental  agency, the insurance carrier or an individual or a
  person designated to receive such notice for said  governmental  agency,
  insurance  carrier  or  individual,  shall  apply  where cancellation is
  effected under the provisions of this  section.  The  insurer  shall  in
  accordance with said prescribed notice where it is required to give such
  notice  in  behalf  of  itself  or  the  insured  give  notice  to  such
  governmental agency, person or individual and  it  shall  determine  and
  calculate  the  effective  date of cancellation from the day it receives
  the copy of the notice of cancellation from the premium finance  agency;
  provided  (1)  where  the aforementioned prescribed notice requires that
  more than ten days' notice be given, the prescribed time for such notice
  shall control as to the effective date of cancellation,  and  (2)  where
  less  than ten days' notice is required by the aforementioned prescribed
  notice the effective date of cancellation shall not be prior to the date
  contained in the copy of the cancellation notice  sent  by  the  premium
  finance agency.
    Notwithstanding  that  certain provisions of section ninety-three-c of
  the vehicle and traffic law as added by chapter six  hundred  fifty-five
  of  the  laws  of  nineteen hundred fifty-six and its successor statute,
  section three hundred thirteen  of  the  vehicle  and  traffic  law,  as
  enacted  by  chapter  seven hundred seventy-five of the laws of nineteen
  hundred fifty-nine are consistent with certain of the provisions of this
  article, those sections shall  not  be  applicable  to  concellation  of
  insurance  by  a  premium  finance  agency  under the provisions of this
  article.
    (f)  The  insurer  or  insurers within a reasonable time not to exceed
  sixty days after  the  effective  date  of  cancellation,  shall  return
  whatever gross unearned premiums are due under the insurance contract or
  contracts  on  a  pro  rata  basis to the premium finance agency for the
  benefit of the insured or insureds.  However, upon such cancellation the
  insurer or insurers shall be entitled to retain a minimum earned premium
  on the policy of ten percent of the  gross  premium  or  sixty  dollars,
  whichever is greater.
    (g)  Upon  the  cancellation of motor vehicle liability insurance by a
  premium finance agency, unless a notice  of  such  cancellation  is  not
  required  by  the  vehicle  and traffic law or by the regulations of the
  commissioner of motor vehicles, a notice of such cancellation under  the
  provisions  of  this  article, shall be filed by the insurer or insurers
  with the commissioner of motor  vehicles  not  later  than  thirty  days
  following the effective date of such cancellation where such a filing is
  required  pursuant  to section ninety-three-c of the vehicle and traffic
  law, as added by chapter six hundred fifty-five of the laws of  nineteen
  hundred  fifty-six  or  its  successor  statute,  section  three hundred
  thirteen of the vehicle and traffic law  as  enacted  by  chapter  seven
  hundred seventy-five of the laws of nineteen hundred fifty-nine.
    2.  The  provisions  of  subdivision one relating to cancellation by a
  premium finance agency of an insurance contract and  the  return  by  an
  insurer of unearned premiums to the premium finance agency also apply to
  the  surrender  by  a  premium  finance  agency of an insurance contract
  providing life insurance and the payment by  the  insurer  of  the  cash
  value  of  the  contract  to the premium finance agency, except that the
  insurer may require the surrender of the insurance contract.
    3. In this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
    (a) "Premium finance agency" includes (1) a lending institution making
  a loan for the purpose of financing  insurance  premiums  in  accordance
  with  the applicable provisions of other laws authorizing and regulating
  the making of loans by the lending institution, and (2)  a  bank,  or  a
  sales finance company licensed under article eleven-b of this chapter;
    (b)  "Premium  finance  agreement"  includes  (1) a promissory note or
  other written agreement or obligation evidencing or securing such a loan
  by a lending institution,  and  (2)  a  retail  instalment  contract  or
  obligation held by a bank, or a sales finance company so licensed; and
    (c)  "Insured"  includes  (1)  each borrower or other obligor under or
  upon  a  promissory  note  or  other  written  agreement  or  obligation
  evidencing  or  securing  such  a loan by a lending institution, and (2)
  each buyer under a retail instalment contract or obligation  held  by  a
  bank, or a sales finance company so licensed.


::: 577-a:premium_finance_agreements.html
 
    &#167; 577-a.  Premium  finance  agreements.  1.  Any  amount advanced by a
  premium finance agency, with  regard  to  any  insurance  policy  issued
  pursuant  to  any  plan  established  under  article  fifty-three of the
  insurance law shall be paid either by check or draft made payable to the
  insurance company, or, if the company is not known, by  check  or  draft
  made  payable to the entity which pursuant to the plan established under
  article fifty-three of the insurance law designates which insurer  shall
  insure or service the risk. The check or draft shall not be made payable
  to the insurance agent or broker.
    2.  Where  insurance coverage is procured through a wholesale producer
  for insurance policies financed with a  premium  finance  agency,  other
  than policies subject to subdivision one of this section:
    (a) Prior to or contemporaneously with the advancement of any funds to
  an  insurance  retail  producer  who  has  procured  an insurance policy
  through a wholesale producer, the  retail  producer  shall  provide  the
  premium  finance  agency  with  the  name  and  address of the wholesale
  producer through whom coverage  was  procured  and,  if  available,  the
  policy number of the insurance policy being financed, in writing;
    (b) The premium finance agency shall notify, in writing, the wholesale
  producer  and the insurance company of the gross premium, the borrower's
  name and address, and, if available, the policy number, within ten  (10)
  business days of acceptance of the agreement;
    (c)  Failure  by  the  retail producer to comply with paragraph (a) of
  this subdivision shall be a  violation  of  subsection  (d)  of  section
  twenty-one  hundred twenty of the insurance law, and the retail producer
  shall be liable for actual damages caused  by  his  or  her  failure  to
  disclose;
    (d)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision,  a  "retail  insurance
  producer" or "retail producer" means an insurance producer who  directly
  deals  with  an  insured; a "wholesale insurance producer" or "wholesale
  producer" means the producer  from  whom  or  through  whom  the  retail
  producer has procured coverage on behalf of the insured.


::: 577:interpretation_of_article.html
 
    &#167; 577.  Interpretation  of  article. This article does not affect: (1)
  the inclusion of amounts for insurance in retail instalment contracts or
  obligations in accordance with the motor vehicle retail instalment sales
  act or the retail instalment sales act; (2) the inclusion of amounts for
  insurance in retail  lease  agreements  in  accordance  with  the  motor
  vehicle  retail  leasing act; or (3) the making of loans for the purpose
  of financing insurance premiums:
    (a) By any person at a rate of interest  not  greater  than  the  rate
  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  of  financial  services pursuant to
  section fourteen-a  of  this  chapter,  or,  if  no  rate  has  been  so
  prescribed, six per centum per annum; or
    (b)  By  a  lending  institution  in  accordance  with  the applicable
  provisions of other laws authorizing and regulating the making of  loans
  by the lending institution.


::: 578:severability.html
 
    &#167; 578.   Severability.  If  any  provision  of  this  article  or  the
  application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid,  the
  invalidity  thereof shall not affect other provisions or applications of
  the article which can be given effect without the invalid  provision  or
  application,  and  to  this  end  the  provisions  of  this  article are
  severable.


::: 579:doing_business_without_license_prohibited.html
 
    &#167;  579.  Doing  business without license prohibited. Only a charitable
  corporation as defined in paragraph  (a)  of  section  one  hundred  two
  (Definitions) of the not-for-profit corporation law of this state, or an
  entity incorporated in another state and having a similar not-for-profit
  status,  shall  engage  in the business of budget planning as defined in
  subdivision one of  section  four  hundred  fifty-five  of  the  general
  business  law  of  this  state  except as authorized by this article and
  without first obtaining a license from the superintendent.


::: 580:application_for_license.html
 
    &#167;  580. Application for license. 1. Application for a license required
  under this article shall be in writing, under  oath,  and  in  the  form
  prescribed by the superintendent, and shall contain the following:
    (a)  The  exact  name and the address of the applicant and its date of
  incorporation; and
    (b) The  name  and  complete  business  and  residential  address  and
  occupation of each officer and director of the applicant; and
    (c)  The complete address where the business of the applicant is to be
  conducted, showing the street  and  number,  if  any,  post  office  and
  building  and  room number, if any, the office building and room number,
  if any, and the municipality and county; and
    (d) If the  applicant  has  one  or  more  branches,  subsidiaries  or
  affiliates  operating  in  this state, the complete address of each such
  place of business; and
    (e)  Such  other  pertinent  information  as  the  superintendent  may
  require,  including  but  not  limited  to  evidence indicating that the
  applicant, or officer, director, or manager of  such  applicant  has  at
  least  one  year  of  experience in financial services or related fields
  applicable to budget planning.
    2. Where an applicant operates several places  of  business,  separate
  applications for license shall be made for each such place of business.
    3.  Upon original application for a license or licenses to operate one
  or more places of business, the applicant shall pay an investigation fee
  in an aggregate amount as prescribed pursuant to section  eighteen-a  of
  this  chapter. No additional investigation fee shall be required for any
  subsequent  application  for  a  license  unless  such  application   is
  subsequent  to  a  denial of a license or to a revocation, suspension or
  surrender of a license.
    4. As a condition for the issuance and retention of a  budget  planner
  license,  and  subject  to  such regulations as the superintendent shall
  prescribe, applicants for a license shall file with the superintendent a
  surety bond in form satisfactory  to  the  superintendent  issued  by  a
  bonding  company  or insurance company authorized to do business in this
  state. Except as provided hereunder, the principal amount of  such  bond
  shall  be  two  hundred  fifty  thousand dollars. The superintendent may
  require a larger bond if he or  she  determines,  in  his  or  her  sole
  discretion,  that  a  licensee  has  engaged  in  a  pattern  of conduct
  resulting in bona fide consumer complaints of misconduct and  that  such
  increased  bond  is  necessary  for  the protection of consumers; or the
  superintendent may increase or decrease  the  amount  of  such  bond  or
  deposit  based  upon  the applicant's or licensee's financial condition,
  business plan, and the actual or estimated aggregate amount of  payments
  and  fees  paid  by  debtors  to such licensee. In lieu of such bond, an
  applicant may keep on deposit with such banks,  savings  banks,  savings
  and loan associations, trust companies, private bankers, national banks,
  federal  savings  banks, or federal savings and loan associations in the
  state as such licensee may designate and the superintendent may approve,
  interest-bearing bonds, notes, debentures, or other obligations  of  the
  United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or guaranteed by
  the  United  States,  or  of  this  state,  or  of a city, county, town,
  village, school district, or instrumentality of this state or guaranteed
  by this state, or dollar deposits, or such other assets  or  letters  of
  credit  as  the  superintendent  shall by rule or regulation permit. The
  proceeds of each bond or deposit shall constitute a  trust  fund  to  be
  used  exclusively  to  reimburse  payments by debtors that have not been
  properly distributed to creditors or to reimburse fees determined by the
  superintendent to be improperly charged or collected and, in  the  event
  of  the  insolvency, liquidation, or bankruptcy of such licensee, to pay
  outstanding department  of  financial  services  examination  costs  and
  assessments.  Within  ninety  days  after  the  effective  date  of this
  subdivision, each licensee shall comply with the  requirements  of  this
  subdivision.


::: 581:conditions_for_issuance_of_a_license_procedure_where_application_denied.html
 
    &#167;   581.  Conditions  for  issuance  of  a  license;  procedure  where
  application denied. 1. Upon the filing of an application for a  license,
  if  the  superintendent  shall  find  that the financial responsibility,
  experience, character, and general fitness of the applicant, and of  the
  officers  and directors thereof are such as to command the confidence of
  the community and to warrant belief that the business will  be  operated
  honestly,  fairly,  and efficiently within the purposes of this article,
  he or she shall thereupon issue a license  in  duplicate  to  engage  in
  budget  planning  in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
  superintendent shall transmit one copy of such license to the  applicant
  and  file another in the office of the department of financial services.
  Such license  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  until  it  is
  surrendered  by  the  licensee  or  revoked  or suspended as hereinafter
  provided; if the superintendent shall not so find he or  she  shall  not
  issue  such  license  and  he  or  she shall notify the applicant of the
  denial. The superintendent shall approve or deny every  application  for
  license hereunder within ninety days from the filing thereof.
    2.  The  superintendent  shall not issue a license unless an applicant
  agrees to provide, either directly or indirectly, budgeting, educational
  and/or counseling services, acceptable to  the  superintendent,  to  the
  debtors  with  whom  such  licensee  has  a contract to engage in budget
  planning, as defined by section four hundred fifty-five of  the  general
  business  law. Failure of a licensee to provide, directly or indirectly,
  such budgeting, educational and/or counseling services acceptable to the
  superintendent shall be a basis for suspension  and  revocation  of  the
  license.


::: 582:license_provisions.html
 
    &#167;  582.  License  provisions.  Each  license issued under this article
  shall state the address or addresses at which  the  business  is  to  be
  conducted  and  shall state fully the name of the licensee, and the date
  and place of  its  incorporation.  A  copy  of  such  license  shall  be
  prominently  posted  in  each  place  of  business of the licensee. Such
  license shall not be  transferable  or  assignable.  In  the  event  the
  location  at which the business is to be conducted shall be changed, the
  licensee shall forthwith notify the superintendent who  shall  thereupon
  without  charge attach to the license a rider setting forth such changed
  location. Each  licensee,  within  ninety  days  of  the  close  of  the
  licensee's  fiscal year, shall submit an independently audited financial
  statement to the superintendent.


::: 583-a:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 583-a.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a change of control of the business of a licensee. Prior to
  any change of control, the person desirous of acquiring control  of  the
  business   of   a   licensee  shall  make  written  application  to  the
  superintendent and pay an investigation fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section   eighteen-a   of   this  chapter  to  the  superintendent.  The
  application shall contain such information  as  the  superintendent,  by
  rule  or  regulation,  may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the
  purpose of making the determination required by subdivision two of  this
  section.
    2.  The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the proposed change
  of control of a licensee in accordance with the  provisions  of  section
  five  hundred  eighty-one  of  this  article.  The  superintendent shall
  approve or disapprove the application  in  writing  within  ninety  days
  after the date the application is filed with the superintendent.
    3.  For  a period of six months from the date of qualification thereof
  and for such  additional  period  of  time  as  the  superintendent  may
  prescribe,  in  writing,  the  provisions of subdivisions one and two of
  this section shall not apply to a transfer of control  by  operation  of
  law  to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who has
  control of a  licensee.  Thereafter,  such  legal  representative  shall
  comply  with the provisions of subdivisions one and two of this section.
  The provisions of subdivisions one and two  of  this  section  shall  be
  applicable  to  an  application  made  under  such  section  by  a legal
  representative.
    The term "legal representative", for the  purposes  of  this  section,
  shall  mean  one  duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to
  act as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator  or
  receiver,  including  one  who  succeeds  a legal representative and one
  acting  in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with   the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4.  As  used  in  this  section:  (a)  the  term  "person" includes an
  individual,  partnership,  corporation,   association   or   any   other
  organization,  and (b) the term "control" means the possession, directly
  or indirectly, of the power to direct or  cause  the  direction  of  the
  management  and policies of a licensee, whether through the ownership of
  voting stock of such licensee, the ownership  of  voting  stock  of  any
  person  which  possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.  Control  shall be
  presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns,  controls
  or  holds  with power to vote ten per centum or more of the voting stock
  of any licensee or of any person which  owns,  controls  or  holds  with
  power  to  vote  ten  per  centum  or  more  of  the voting stock of any
  licensee, but no person shall be deemed to control a licensee solely  by
  reason  of  being an officer or director of such licensee or person. The
  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application of a licensee
  or any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls or holds  with
  power  to  vote  or seeks to own, control or hold with power to vote any
  voting stock of such licensee, determine whether or not  the  ownership,
  control  or holding of such voting stock constitutes or would constitute
  control of such licensee for purposes of this section.


::: 583:changes_in_officers_or_directors_of_licensee.html
 
    &#167; 583. Changes in officers or directors of licensee. In the event that
  there  shall  be  any  change  among  the  officers  or directors of any
  licensee, the licensee shall promptly notify the superintendent  of  the
  name,  address,  and  occupation  of  each  new  officer or director and
  provide such other information as the superintendent may require.


::: 584-a:contracts_with_debtors_fees.html
 
    &#167;  584-a.  Contracts with debtors; fees. Each licensee shall submit to
  the department any form of written contract it intends  to  use  between
  itself  and  such  debtor.  Such  form  contract shall, at minimum, make
  provision for the following information:
    1. a complete  list  of  the  debtor's  obligations  to  be  adjusted,
  including the name of each creditor;
    2.  the  total  fees  agreed  to  for  such  services,  including  any
  adjustments for estimated available  rebates  from  creditors,  provided
  that  nothing  in  this  subdivision  shall  require a licensee to share
  rebates with its clients;
    3. the commencement and termination date of the contract;
    4. a pro forma statement of the total fees to  be  charged,  including
  expected  available rebates from creditors, expressed as a percentage of
  the total obligations, principal and interest to be adjusted under  such
  contract;
    5.  settlement  terms  in  case  of  cancellation  of  the contract or
  prepayment of the obligations;
    6. a notice to the debtor that the  debtor  may  cancel  the  contract
  until  midnight  of  the  third  business day after the day on which the
  debtor has signed the contract; and
    7. the terms under which the payments may be made by the debtor.  Upon
  execution, a copy of such contract shall be immediately furnished to the
  debtor.  Such contract may subsequently be amended to include additional
  creditors and debtors obligations.


::: 584-b:prohibited_activities.html
 
    &#167;   584-b.   Prohibited   activities.   1.   No  person,  partnership,
  association, corporation, or other entity, except a licensee,  may  make
  any  representation,  directly  or indirectly, orally or in writing that
  he, she, or it is licensed under this article.
    2. No licensee shall advertise its  services  in  any  media,  whether
  print  or  electronic, in any manner that may be false or deceptive. All
  such advertisements shall contain the name and office  address  of  such
  entity,  which  shall  conform  to a name and address on record with the
  department and which shall indicate that the licensee is licensed by the
  department. Any  advertisements  in  any  media,  print  or  electronic,
  contracted  for  or  placed prior to the effective date of this section,
  shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
    3. No person or any other entity, other than a licensee, shall use the
  title "budget planner" or "licensed budget planner" or the term  "budget
  planning" in any public advertisement, business card, or letterhead.
    4.  No  licensee shall commingle monies received from debtors with any
  other funds associated with the operation of its business  or  with  any
  funds  associated  with  any  other type of business, provided, however,
  that for the sole purpose of making a single payment to  a  creditor,  a
  licensee  may commingle monies received from debtors under contract with
  one or more of its affiliates authorized to engage in budget planning in
  another state.
    5. Licensees shall make payments to creditors in a timely  manner,  in
  accordance  with  the  contract  between  the  licensee  and the debtor,
  provided, however, that a licensee may contract with a person or  entity
  that   distributes,   or   supervises,   coordinates,  or  controls  the
  distribution of, such payments to the creditors, pursuant to such  terms
  or  conditions  that  the  superintendent  may  prescribe by regulation.
  Payments made pursuant to such contract  with  the  licensee  shall  not
  require  such  person  or  entity  to  be  licensed  pursuant to article
  thirteen-b of this chapter.
    6. No licensee shall purchase any obligation of a debtor.
    7. No licensee shall operate as a person or entity seeking payment  of
  obligations  on  behalf of any creditors that are not receiving payments
  pursuant to a contract between a debtor and a licensee.
    8. No licensee shall execute any contract or agreement to be signed by
  the debtor unless the contract or agreement is fully completed, and  the
  duration  of  any  such  contract  shall  be  in  conformance  with  any
  limitations specified pursuant to regulations of the superintendent.
    9. No licensee shall pay any  bonus  or  other  consideration  to  any
  person or entity for the referral of a debtor to its business, or accept
  or  receive  any  bonus, commission or other consideration for referring
  any debtor to any person or entity for any  reason;  provided,  however,
  that nothing herein shall prohibit the payment of rebates from creditors
  to licensees.
    10.  No  licensee  shall  disclose or threaten to disclose information
  concerning the existence of a debt, or any other  conduct,  which  could
  coerce payment of the debt of a debtor with whom it has a contract.
    11.  No  licensee  shall  use  a  communication which simulates in any
  manner a legal or judicial process, or which gives the false  appearance
  of  being  authorized, issued, or approved by a government, governmental
  agency, or attorney-at-law.
    12. No licensee, or a director, manager or officer of  such  licensee,
  or  any  immediate  family  member  of such individual, or a controlling
  party of such licensee as defined in section five hundred eighty-three-a
  of this article, shall  be  a  director,  manager,  officer,  owner,  or
  controlling  party of any creditor or a subsidiary of any such creditor,
  that is receiving or will receive payments from the licensee  on  behalf
  of a debtor with whom the licensee has contracted.
    13.  No  licensee, or a director, manager or officer of such licensee,
  or any immediate family member of  such  individual,  or  a  controlling
  party of such licensee as defined in section five hundred eighty-three-a
  of  this  article,  shall disclose by any means, directly or indirectly,
  the name, address, or any other identifying  information  of  a  debtor,
  except  as  required  by  subpoena  or  other  process  from  a court of
  competent jurisdiction or a law  enforcement  agency,  or  in  order  to
  establish  an  account  with  a  creditor. "Identifying information of a
  debtor" as used herein shall include, but not be limited to, a  debtor's
  name,  photograph,  address,  telephone  number, social security number,
  date of birth, drivers identification number, credit card  number,  bank
  account number, mother's maiden name, medical or disability information,
  if  any, as well as any other identification number which a licensee may
  possess.


::: 584:grounds_for_suspension_or_revocation_of_license_procedure.html
 
    &#167; 584.  Grounds for suspension or revocation of license; procedure. 1.
  The superintendent may revoke any license issued hereunder if  he  shall
  find that:
    (a)  The  licensee  has violated any provisions of this article, or of
  any rule or regulation made by the superintendent under and  within  the
  authority of this article;
    (b)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the original application for such license, would have  warranted  the
  superintendent in refusing originally to issue such license; or
    (c)  The conviction of a licensee for a crime against the laws of this
  state or any other  state  or  of  the  United  States  involving  moral
  turpitude  or  fraudulent  or dishonest actions, or the entry of a final
  judgement in a court of competent jurisdiction against the licensee in a
  civil action arising from fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit.
    2. The superintendent may, on good cause shown,  suspend  any  license
  for a period not exceeding thirty days, pending investigation.
    3.  No license shall be revoked or suspended except after notice and a
  hearing thereon.
    4. Any licensee  may  surrender  any  license  by  delivering  to  the
  superintendent  written  notice that it thereby surrenders such license,
  but such surrender shall not affect such licensee's  civil  or  criminal
  liability for acts committed prior to such surrender.
    5.  No revocation, suspension or surrender of any license shall impair
  or affect the obligation of any pre-existing lawful contract between the
  licensee and any person.
    6. Every license issued hereunder shall remain  in  force  and  effect
  until  the  same  shall  have  been surrendered, revoked or suspended in
  accordance with the provisions of this article, but  the  superintendent
  shall  have authority to reinstate a suspended license or to issue a new
  license to a licensee whose license shall have been revoked if  no  fact
  or  condition  then exists which would have warranted the superintendent
  in refusing originally to issue such license under this article.
    7. Whenever the superintendent  shall  revoke  or  suspend  a  license
  issued pursuant to this article, he shall forthwith execute in duplicate
  a  written  order to that effect. The superintendent shall file one copy
  of such order in the office of the department of financial services  and
  shall  forthwith  serve the other copy upon the licensee. Any such order
  may be reviewed in the manner provided by article seventy-eight  of  the
  civil  practice law and rules. Such application for review as authorized
  by this section must be made within thirty days from the  date  of  such
  order of suspension or revocation.


::: 585:superintendent_authorized_to_examine.html
 
    &#167;  585.  Superintendent  authorized  to  examine.  For  the purpose of
  discovering violations of this article or securing information  lawfully
  required  by  him  or her hereunder, the superintendent may at any time,
  and as often as he or she may  determine,  either  personally  or  by  a
  person  duly  designated  by  him  or  her, investigate the business and
  examine the books, accounts, records, and files used  therein  of  every
  licensee  hereunder.  For that purpose the superintendent and his or her
  duly designated representative shall have free access to the offices and
  place of business, books, accounts, papers, records,  files,  safes  and
  vaults  of  all  such  licensees. The superintendent and any person duly
  designated by him or her shall have authority to require the  attendance
  of  and  to examine under oath all persons whose testimony he or she may
  require relative to such business. The expenses incurred in  making  any
  examination  pursuant to this section shall be assessed against and paid
  by the licensee so  examined,  except  that  traveling  and  subsistence
  expenses  so  incurred shall be charged against and paid by licensees in
  such proportions as the superintendent shall deem just  and  reasonable,
  and  such  proportionate charges shall be added to the assessment of the
  other expenses incurred upon each examination. Upon  written  notice  by
  the  superintendent of the total amount of such assessment, the licensee
  shall  become  liable  for  and  shall  pay  such  assessment   to   the
  superintendent. If, upon review, the superintendent shall determine that
  the  fees or service charges set by the licensee are unreasonable, he or
  she shall direct the licensee to  make  adjustments  in  said  fees  and
  service  charges in accordance with his or her findings, which shall set
  forth a detailed factual basis and reasoning supporting such finding.


::: 586:licensees_books_and_records_reports.html
 
    &#167; 586.  Licensee's  books  and records; reports. 1. The licensee shall
  keep and use in its business such books, accounts, and records  as  will
  enable   the  superintendent  to  determine  whether  such  licensee  is
  complying with the provisions of this article and  with  the  rules  and
  regulations   lawfully  made  by  the  superintendent  hereunder.  Every
  licensee shall preserve such books, accounts, and records, for at  least
  three  years;  provided,  however,  that  preservation  by  photographic
  reproduction thereof or records in photographic  form  shall  constitute
  compliance with the requirements of this section.
    2.  Each  licensee  shall  annually,  on  or  before  the first day of
  February, file a report with the superintendent giving such  information
  as the superintendent may require concerning the business and operations
  during  the  preceding calendar year of such licensee under authority of
  this article. Such report shall be subscribed and affirmed  as  true  by
  the  licensee  under  the  penalties of perjury and shall be in the form
  prescribed by the superintendent. In addition  to  annual  reports,  the
  superintendent  may  require,  under  oath and in the form prescribed by
  him, such additional regular or special reports as he may deem necessary
  to  the  proper  supervision  of  licensees  under  this  article.  Such
  additional reports shall be in the form prescribed by the superintendent
  and  shall  be  subscribed  and  affirmed as true under the penalties of
  perjury.


::: 587:authority_of_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 587.  Authority  of  superintendent.  The  superintendent  is hereby
  authorized  and  empowered  to  make,  in  addition   hereto   and   not
  inconsistent  herewith,  such  general  rules  and regulations, and such
  specific rulings, demands, and findings as he may deem necessary for the
  proper conduct of the business authorized and licensed hereunder and for
  the enforcement of this article.


::: 589:declaration_of_policy.html
 
    &#167; 589.  Declaration  of policy. The origination, funding and servicing
  of residential mortgage loans and the  types  of  entities  involved  in
  residential mortgage lending has undergone significant changes in recent
  years,  due in part to developments in the general economy, specifically
  interest rate volatility, the sophistication of the  national  secondary
  market for mortgage loans and the market for mortgage-backed securities.
  The  recent trend toward deregulation in the financial services industry
  has  accelerated  the  evolution  of   residential   mortgage   lending,
  dramatically  increasing  the  types  of  mortgage loans offered and the
  manner  in  which  they  are  advertised  and  marketed  to   consumers.
  Depository  institutions,  traditionally the major source of residential
  mortgage  financing  for  individuals,  now  compete  for  capital   and
  customers   with   mortgage   bankers   and   other   financial  service
  organizations.  Residential  mortgage  lenders  of   every   type   have
  increasingly  relied  on  non-financial intermediaries, such as mortgage
  brokers, to make loans available to consumers. These  developments  have
  raised  questions  as  to  whether all entities engaging in this banking
  function operate under appropriate regulatory scrutiny and as to whether
  all residential mortgage lenders are conducting their  business  in  the
  best interests of New York homeowners and potential homeowners.
    The  activities  of  lenders  and  their agents offering financing for
  residential real property have a direct and immediate  impact  upon  the
  housing  industry,  the neighborhoods and communities of this state, its
  homeowners and potential homeowners. The legislature finds  that  it  is
  essential  for  the  protection  of  the  citizens of this state and the
  stability of the state's economy that reasonable standards governing the
  business practices of mortgage lenders and their agents be imposed.  The
  legislature  further  finds  that  the  obligations of lenders and their
  agents to consumers in connection with making,  soliciting,  processing,
  placing  or  negotiating  of  mortgage  loans are such as to warrant the
  uniform  regulation  of  the  residential  mortgage   lending   process,
  including   the  application,  solicitation,  making  and  servicing  of
  mortgage loans.   Consistent with the  purposes  of  promoting  mortgage
  lending  for  the  benefit  of  our citizens by responsible providers of
  mortgage loans and services and avoiding requirements inconsistent  with
  legitimate  and  responsible  business practices in the mortgage lending
  industry, the purpose of this article is to protect New  York  consumers
  seeking  a  residential  mortgage  loan  and to ensure that the mortgage
  lending industry is operating fairly,  honestly  and  efficiently,  free
  from deceptive and anti-competitive practices.


::: 590-a:junior_mortgage_loans.html
 
    &#167; 590-a.  Junior  mortgage  loans.  1. A licensee may make a loan to a
  natural person upon the security  of  a  mortgage  on  residential  real
  property which is not a first lien at the rate or rates agreed to by the
  licensee   and   the  borrower,  subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent of financial services may prescribe. Such regulations  by
  the  superintendent  of financial services may include such restrictions
  as the superintendent of financial services finds necessary  or  proper.
  For  purposes of this section, the term mortgage shall include a lien on
  an existing  ownership  interest  in  certificates  of  stock  or  other
  evidence  of  an  ownership interest in, and a proprietary lease from, a
  corporation or partnership formed for the  purpose  of  the  cooperative
  ownership of residential real estate.
    2.  A  contract,  note  or  instrument evidencing or securing a junior
  mortgage loan shall not contain  any  acceleration  clause  which  would
  provide  that  the  junior mortgage loan may be declared due and payable
  upon the condition that the licensee deems itself insecure with  respect
  to  the  unpaid  balance of such junior mortgage loan; shall not contain
  clauses which authorize confession of judgment; shall allow the borrower
  to prepay the loan in whole  or  in  part  without  penalty,  and  shall
  contain the following notice in bold face type, at least ten point size:
      "DEFAULT  IN  THE  PAYMENT  OF THIS LOAN AGREEMENT MAY RESULT IN THE
  LOSS OF THE PROPERTY SECURING THE LOAN. UNDER FEDERAL LAW, YOU MAY  HAVE
  THE RIGHT TO CANCEL THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU HAVE THIS RIGHT, THE CREDITOR
  IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH A SEPARATE WRITTEN NOTICE SPECIFYING THE
  CIRCUMSTANCES AND TIMES UNDER WHICH YOU CAN EXERCISE THIS RIGHT."
    3.  Where  the  contract,  note or instrument evidencing or securing a
  junior mortgage loan provides for a variable rate of interest, said rate
  shall be based on a published index that is (a) readily  available,  (b)
  independently  verifiable,  (c)  beyond the control of the licensee, and
  (d) approved by the superintendent. The  interest  rate  of  the  junior
  mortgage  loan  shall  be  reduced  in proportion to any decrease in the
  index rate. Increases in the interest rate may be made at the option  of
  the licensee.
    4.  The  superintendent of financial services shall adopt regulations,
  including but not limited  to:  (a)  providing  for  disclosure  to  the
  borrower  by  the licensee of the circumstances under which the rate may
  increase, any limitations on the increase, the effect of an increase and
  an example of the payment terms that would result from an increase,  (b)
  providing for disclosure to the borrower by the licensee of a history of
  the  fluctuations of the index over a reasonable period of time, and (c)
  providing for notice to the borrower  from  the  licensee  of  any  rate
  increase or change in the terms of payment.
    5.  A line of credit secured by a junior mortgage shall be established
  in an amount of no less than twenty-five hundred dollars; and  shall  be
  repayable in monthly installments.


::: 590-b:responsibilities.html
 
    &#167;  590-b. Responsibilities. 1. Each mortgage broker shall, in addition
  to the duties imposed by otherwise applicable provisions  of  state  and
  federal law, with respect to any transaction, including any practice, or
  course  of  business  in  connection  with the transaction, in which the
  mortgage broker solicits, processes, places or negotiates a home loan:
    (a) act in the borrower's interest;
    (b) act with reasonable skill, care and diligence;
    (c) act in good faith and with fair dealing;
    (d) not accept, give, or charge any undisclosed compensation, directly
  or indirectly, that inures  to  the  benefit  of  the  mortgage  broker,
  whether or not characterized as an expenditure made for the borrower;
    (e)  clearly disclose to the borrower, not later than three days after
  receipt of the loan application, all material information  as  specified
  by   the   superintendent  that  might  reasonably  affect  the  rights,
  interests, or ability of the borrower to receive the borrower's intended
  benefit from the home loan, including total compensation that the broker
  would receive from any of the loan options that the lender  or  mortgage
  broker presents to the borrower; and
    (f)  diligently  work  to  present  the  borrower with a range of loan
  products  for  which  the  borrower  likely  qualifies  and  which   are
  appropriate   to   the   borrower's  existing  circumstances,  based  on
  information known by, or obtained in good faith by, the broker.
    2. No lender or mortgage broker shall improperly influence or  attempt
  to  improperly influence the development, reporting, result or review of
  a real estate appraisal relating to real property securing a home  loan,
  provided that it shall not be a violation of this prohibition to:
    (a)  ask  an  appraiser  to  consider  additional  information about a
  borrower's principal dwelling or about comparable properties;
    (b) request that an appraiser provide additional information about the
  basis for a valuation;
    (c) request that an appraiser correct factual errors in a valuation;
    (d) obtain multiple appraisals of a borrower's principal dwelling,  so
  long  as  the lender or mortgage broker adheres to a policy of selecting
  the most reliable appraisal, rather than the appraisal that  states  the
  highest value;
    (e)  withhold compensation from an appraiser for breach of contract or
  substandard performance of services;
    (f) terminate a relationship  with  an  appraiser  for  violations  of
  applicable  state  or federal law or breaches of ethical or professional
  standards; and
    (g) take action permitted or required by applicable state  or  federal
  statute, regulation, or agency guidance.
    3.  Any  mortgage  broker found by a preponderance of evidence to have
  violated subdivision one  of  this  section,  shall  be  liable  to  the
  borrower for actual damages.
    3-a.  In  connection  with  the making or brokering of a home loan, no
  person may provide, and  no  mortgage  broker  or  mortgage  lender  may
  receive,  directly  or indirectly, any compensation that is based on, or
  varies with, the terms of any home  loan.  This  subdivision  shall  not
  prohibit compensation based on the principal balance of the loan.
    4.  Any lender or mortgage broker found by a preponderance of evidence
  to have violated subdivision two of this section, shall be liable to the
  borrower for actual damages.
    5. A borrower may be granted injunctive, declaratory, and  such  other
  equitable  relief as the court deems appropriate in an action to enforce
  compliance with this section.
    6. A court may also award reasonable attorneys' fees to  a  prevailing
  borrower in a foreclosure action.
    7.  The  attorney  general  or  the  superintendent  may  enforce  the
  provisions of this section.
    8.  The  remedies  provided in this section are not intended to be the
  exclusive remedies available to a borrower.


::: 590:licensing.html
 
    &#167; 590.  Licensing.  1.  Definitions.  (a) "Mortgage loan" shall mean a
  loan to  a  natural  person  made  primarily  for  personal,  family  or
  household  use,  secured  by  either  a  mortgage  or  deed  of trust on
  residential real property, any certificate of stock or other evidence of
  ownership in, and proprietary lease from, a corporation  or  partnership
  formed  for  the  purpose  of  cooperative ownership of residential real
  property or, if determined by the superintendent  by  regulation,  shall
  include  such  a  loan  secured by a security interest on a manufactured
  home;
    (b) "Residential real property" shall mean real  property  located  in
  this  state  improved by a one-to-four family dwelling used or occupied,
  or intended to be used or occupied, wholly or partly,  as  the  home  or
  residence of one or more persons, but shall not refer to unimproved real
  property upon which such dwellings are to be constructed;
    (c)  "Making  a  mortgage  loan"  shall mean for compensation or gain,
  either directly or indirectly,  advancing  funds,  offering  to  advance
  funds,  or  making  a  commitment to advance funds to an applicant for a
  mortgage loan or a mortgagor as a mortgage loan;
    (d) "Soliciting, processing, placing or negotiating a  mortgage  loan"
  shall  mean  for  compensation  or  gain, either directly or indirectly,
  accepting or offering to accept an  application  for  a  mortgage  loan,
  assisting  or offering to assist in the processing of an application for
  a mortgage loan, soliciting or offering to solicit a  mortgage  loan  on
  behalf  of  a  third  party  or negotiating or offering to negotiate the
  terms or conditions of a mortgage loan with a  lender  on  behalf  of  a
  third party;
    (e)  "Exempt  organization"  shall mean any insurance company, banking
  organization, foreign banking corporation licensed by the superintendent
  or the comptroller of the currency to transact business in  this  state,
  national   bank,   federal   savings  bank,  federal  savings  and  loan
  association, federal credit union, or any bank, trust  company,  savings
  bank,  savings and loan association, or credit union organized under the
  laws of any other state, or any instrumentality created  by  the  United
  States  or  any  state with the power to make mortgage loans. Subject to
  such regulations as may be promulgated by  the  superintendent,  "exempt
  organization" may also include any subsidiary of such entities;
    (f)  "Licensee" or "mortgage banker" shall mean a person or entity who
  or which is licensed pursuant to section five hundred ninety-one of this
  chapter to engage in the business  of  making  mortgage  loans  in  this
  state;
    (g)  "Registrant"  or  "mortgage broker" shall mean a person or entity
  registered pursuant to section five hundred ninety-one-a of this chapter
  to  engage  in  the  business  of  soliciting,  processing,  placing  or
  negotiating  mortgage loans for others, or offering to solicit, process,
  place or negotiate mortgage loans for others;
    (h) "Mortgage loan servicer" or "servicer"  shall  mean  a  person  or
  entity  registered pursuant to subdivision two of this section to engage
  in the business of servicing mortgage loans for property located in this
  state;
    (i) "Servicing mortgage loans"  shall  mean  receiving  any  scheduled
  periodic  payments from a borrower pursuant to the terms of any mortgage
  loan, including amounts for escrow accounts under section six-k of  this
  chapter,  title  three-A of article nine of the real property tax law or
  section ten of 12 U.S.C. 2609, and making the payments to the  owner  of
  the loan or other third parties of principal and interest and such other
  payments  with  respect to the amounts received from the borrower as may
  be required pursuant to the terms of the mortgage service loan documents
  or servicing contract. In the case of a home equity conversion  mortgage
  or  reverse  mortgage  as  referenced  in section six-h of this chapter,
  sections two hundred  eighty  and  two  hundred  eighty-a  of  the  real
  property law or 24 CFR 3500.2, servicing includes making payments to the
  borrower.
    2.  Necessity  for  license.   (a) No individual, person, partnership,
  association, corporation or other entity shall engage in the business of
  making mortgage  loans  without  first  obtaining  a  license  from  the
  superintendent  in  accordance  with the licensing procedure provided in
  this  article  and  such  regulations  as  may  be  promulgated  by  the
  superintendent.  The  licensing provisions of this subdivision shall not
  apply to: (i) any exempt organization; (ii) any entity or entities which
  shall be exempted in accordance  with  regulations  promulgated  by  the
  superintendent  hereunder; or (iii) any individual, person, partnership,
  association, corporation or other entity which makes not more than three
  such loans in a calendar year, nor more than five in a two year  period,
  provided  that  no  such  mortgage  loans  have  been  made  which  were
  solicited,  processed,  placed  or  negotiated  by  a  mortgage  broker,
  mortgage banker or exempt organization.
    (b)  No  person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity
  shall engage in the  business  of  soliciting,  processing,  placing  or
  negotiating  a  mortgage  loan or offering to solicit, process, place or
  negotiate a mortgage loan in this state without first  being  registered
  with  the  superintendent  as  a  mortgage broker in accordance with the
  registration procedure provided in this article and by such  regulations
  as may be promulgated by the superintendent. The registration provisions
  of this subdivision shall not apply to any exempt organization, mortgage
  banker  or mortgage loan servicer. No real estate broker or salesman, as
  defined in section four hundred forty of the real property law, shall be
  deemed to be engaged in the business of a mortgage broker if he does not
  accept  a  fee,  directly  or  indirectly,  for  services  rendered   in
  connection  with  the solicitation, processing, placement or negotiation
  of a mortgage loan. No attorney-at-law who solicits,  processes,  places
  or  negotiates a mortgage loan incidental to his legal practice shall be
  deemed to  be  engaged  in  the  business  of  a  mortgage  broker.  The
  registration  provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  not apply to any
  person or entity which shall be exempted in accordance with  regulations
  promulgated by the superintendent hereunder.
    (b-1) No person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity
  shall engage in the business of servicing mortgage loans with respect to
  any  property  located in this state without first being registered with
  the superintendent as a mortgage loan servicer in  accordance  with  the
  registration procedure provided by such regulations as may be prescribed
  by  the  superintendent.  The  superintendent  may  refuse to register a
  mortgage loan servicer on the same grounds that the  superintendent  may
  refuse to issue a registration certificate to a mortgage broker pursuant
  to subdivision two of section five hundred ninety-two-a of this article.
  The  registration  provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to any
  exempt organization, mortgage banker, or mortgage broker or  any  person
  or  entity  which  shall  be  exempted  in  accordance  with regulations
  prescribed by the superintendent hereunder; provided  that  such  exempt
  organization,  mortgage  banker,  mortgage  broker,  or  exempted person
  notifies the superintendent  that  it  is  acting  as  a  mortgage  loan
  servicer  in  this  state and complies with any regulation applicable to
  mortgage  loan  servicers,  promulgated  by  the   superintendent.   The
  superintendent  may  require  all  registrations and notifications to be
  made through the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and  Registry.  An
  application  to  become  a  registered  mortgage  loan  servicer  or any
  application  with  respect  to  a  mortgage  loan  servicer   shall   be
  accompanied  by  a  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of
  this chapter. Any fee established pursuant to this  subdivision  may  be
  collected  by  and  include  a  processing fee charged by the Nationwide
  Mortgage  Licensing  System and Registry. Any such processing fees shall
  not be remitted to the superintendent and shall not  be  deemed  revenue
  pursuant to this chapter or the state finance law.
    (c)  A  licensee  registrant  or  mortgage loan servicer may apply for
  authority to open and maintain one or more branch offices.
    (d)  No  person  or  entity  engaged  in  the  building  and  sale  of
  residential  real  property, or a financing subsidiary thereof, shall be
  deemed to be making a mortgage loan, as  defined  in  paragraph  (c)  of
  subdivision  one  of this section, or soliciting, processing, placing or
  negotiating a mortgage loan, as defined in paragraph (d) of  subdivision
  one  of  this  section,  if and only if such person, entity or financing
  subsidiary shall make, solicit, process, place or negotiate  a  mortgage
  loan  with  respect  to residential real property it has built through a
  licensee or  exempt  organization  which  is  acting  as  its  agent  in
  compliance with this article and regulations promulgated hereunder.
    3.  Rules and regulations. In addition to such powers as may otherwise
  be prescribed by this chapter, the superintendent is  hereby  authorized
  and  empowered  to  promulgate  such rules and regulations as may in the
  judgement of the superintendent be consistent with the purposes of  this
  article,  or  appropriate  for  the  effective  administration  of  this
  article, including, but not limited to:
    (a) Such rules and regulations in connection with  the  activities  of
  mortgage  brokers,  mortgage bankers, mortgage loan servicers and exempt
  organizations as may be necessary and appropriate for the protection  of
  consumers in this state;
    (b)  Such rules and regulations as may be necessary and appropriate to
  define improper or fraudulent business practices in connection with  the
  activities   of   mortgage  brokers,  mortgage  bankers,  mortgage  loan
  servicers and exempt organizations in making mortgage loans;
    (c) Such rules  and  regulations  under  this  article  regarding  the
  origination,  sale  or  servicing  of  manufactured home loans as may be
  necessary and appropriate for the protection of consumers;
    (d) Such rules and regulations as may define the terms  used  in  this
  article  and  as  may  be  necessary  and  appropriate  to interpret and
  implement the provisions of this article; and
    (e) Such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the enforcement
  of this article.
    The superintendent is hereby authorized and  empowered  to  make  such
  specific  rulings,  demands  and findings as the superintendent may deem
  necessary for the proper conduct of the mortgage lending industry.
    4. Exemptions from provisions of article. No person shall  be  subject
  to the licensure or registration provisions of this article if he or she
  is  employed  by  an exempt organization, a licensee or registrant, or a
  mortgage loan servicer to assist in  the  performance  of  the  business
  activities  described  in  this  article  for  the  exempt organization,
  licensee or registrant, or a mortgage loan servicer  or  is  engaged  in
  regulated  activities  as  an  associate or affiliate of a registrant, a
  licensee, a mortgage loan servicer  or  exempt  organization  which  has
  filed an undertaking of accountability with the superintendent.
    No  employee  of  an  exempt  organization  shall  be  subject  to the
  licensure or  registration  provisions  of  this  article  due  to  such
  employee's  assisting in the performance of the business activities of a
  mortgage banker  that  is  controlled  by  the  exempt  organization  or
  affiliated  with  the  exempt  organization  through common ownership or
  control.
    5. Activities of mortgage brokers,  mortgage  bankers,  mortgage  loan
  servicers  and  exempt  organizations. (a) Mortgage brokers may not make
  mortgage loans in this state;
    (b)  Mortgage  brokers  shall  solicit,  process,  place and negotiate
  mortgage  loans  with  a  mortgage  banker  licensed  pursuant  to   the
  provisions  of  this article or exempt organization as defined herein or
  pursuant  to  regulations  as  promulgated  by  the  banking  board   or
  prescribed  by  the superintendent and in conformity with the provisions
  of this chapter, such rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
  superintendent thereunder and all applicable federal laws and the  rules
  and regulations promulgated thereunder;
    (c)  Mortgage  bankers  and  exempt  organizations shall make mortgage
  loans in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, such rules  and
  regulations  as  may be promulgated by the superintendent thereunder and
  all applicable federal laws and the rules  and  regulations  promulgated
  thereunder;
    (d)  Mortgage loan servicers shall engage in the business of servicing
  mortgage loans in conformity with the provisions of this  chapter,  such
  rules  and  regulations  as  may  be  promulgated  by the superintendent
  thereunder and all applicable federal laws and the rules and regulations
  promulgated thereunder.
    (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit any  otherwise
  applicable state or federal law or regulations.
    5-a.  Mortgage  brokers  and  federal  housing  administration-insured
  mortgage loans. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of  this  section,  a
  mortgage  broker  may  enter  into  agreements  with  federally-approved
  sponsors and make mortgage loans,  which  are  insured  by  the  federal
  housing  administration, for sale or transfer to such sponsors, provided
  that such mortgage broker:
    (i) meets  all  federal  requirements  as  a  loan  correspondent  and
  receives and maintains federal approval;
    (ii)  prior  to making any such federal housing administration-insured
  mortgage loans, receives the superintendent's approval;
    (iii) maintains the superintendent's approval;
    (iv) enters into agreements only with federally-approved sponsors  who
  are licensed mortgage bankers or exempt organizations;
    (v)  promptly  notifies  the  superintendent  when  it  enters into an
  agreement with a federally-approved sponsor and when any such  agreement
  terminates.  The  federally-approved  sponsor shall also promptly notify
  the superintendent when  any  such  agreement  with  a  mortgage  broker
  terminates;
    (vi)   maintains  a  written  agreement  with  its  federally-approved
  sponsors to fund all  federal  housing  administration-insured  mortgage
  loans that the mortgage broker makes;
    (vii)  issues  a  lock-in agreement or commitment only after receiving
  approval for such agreement or commitment  from  its  federally-approved
  sponsors; and
    (viii) maintains at all times the federal net worth requirement.
    (b)  A federally-approved sponsor is responsible to the superintendent
  for the actions of any mortgage broker which is its  loan  correspondent
  in  regard  to  the  making  of  a  mortgage loan insured by the federal
  housing administration.
    (c) If a mortgage broker's federal approval is surrendered,  suspended
  or revoked, the authorization granted pursuant to this subdivision shall
  immediately  cease  and the mortgage broker shall immediately notify the
  superintendent of the surrender, suspension or revocation.
    (d) The approval of the superintendent pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of
  this  subdivision  may  be  immediately suspended or revoked in the sole
  discretion of the superintendent if it  is  found  that  the  making  of
  federal housing administration-insured mortgage loans under this section
  by a mortgage broker is inconsistent with the provisions of section five
  hundred eighty-nine of this chapter.
    (e)  Notwithstanding  the provisions of this section and sections five
  hundred ninety-three-a and five hundred ninety-five-a of  this  chapter,
  the   superintendent   may   establish  regulations  to  implement  this
  subdivision, and may impose  requirements  and  conditions  on  mortgage
  brokers which supplement or exceed federal requirements.
    6.  The  superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered, consistent
  with the declaration of policy set forth in this article, to  exempt  by
  rule or regulation from any or all of the provisions of this article any
  or  all licensees or exempt organizations as defined in paragraph (e) of
  subdivision one of this section with respect to credit  line  mortgages,
  installment loans and home improvement loans.


::: 591-a:application_to_register_as_a_mortgage_broker_fees.html
 
    &#167; 591-a.  Application  to  register  as a mortgage broker; fees. 1. An
  application to become registered  as  a  mortgage  broker  shall  be  in
  writing,  under  oath,  in  such  form  as  shall  be  prescribed by the
  superintendent, and shall be accompanied  by  the  fingerprints  of  the
  applicant.  Notwithstanding article three of the state technology law or
  any other law to the contrary, the superintendent may  require  that  an
  application  for,  or  renewal  of, a license or any other submission or
  application for approval as may be required by this article, be made  or
  executed  by  electronic  means, including through the National Mortgage
  Licensing System and  Registry  or  other  entities  designated  by  the
  National  Mortgage  Licensing  System and Registry if he or she deems it
  necessary to ensure the efficient and effective administration  of  this
  article.  Such  fingerprints  shall  be  submitted  to  the  division of
  criminal justice services for a state criminal history record check,  as
  defined  in subdivision one of section three thousand thirty-five of the
  education  law,  and  may  be  submitted  to  the  federal   bureau   of
  investigation  for  a  national  criminal  history  record  check.  Such
  application shall contain the name and complete business and residential
  address or addresses  of  the  applicant,  or  if  the  applicant  is  a
  partnership,   association,   corporation  or  other  form  of  business
  organization, the names and complete business and residential  addresses
  of each member, director and principal officer thereof. Such application
  shall  also  include  an  affirmation  of financial solvency noting such
  capitalization requirements as may be required  by  the  superintendent,
  and   such   descriptions   of   the   business   activities,  financial
  responsibility, educational background and general character and fitness
  of the  applicant  as  may  be  required  by  the  superintendent.  Such
  application  shall be accompanied by an investigation fee payable to the
  superintendent as prescribed pursuant  to  section  eighteen-a  of  this
  chapter.
    2.  A registrant may apply for authority to open and maintain a branch
  office by giving the superintendent prior notice  of  its  intention  in
  such  form  as  shall  be  prescribed  by the superintendent. Unless the
  superintendent denies the application within thirty days of  publication
  of notice of receipt of a completed application, the registrant shall be
  permitted  to  open  and  maintain such branch office. An application to
  open  and  maintain  a  branch  office  shall  be  accompanied   by   an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter.
    3. As a condition  for  the  issuance  and  retention  of  a  mortgage
  broker's   registration,   and   subject  to  such  regulations  as  the
  superintendent shall prescribe, applicants for a registration shall file
  with the superintendent a surety bond or make a deposit, as described in
  subdivision four of section five hundred ninety-one of this article,  in
  an amount and form prescribed by regulations of the superintendent. Such
  regulations  shall  provide  for  a  varying  bond  amount  based upon a
  registrant's volume of  business  and  any  other  relevant  factors  as
  determined by the superintendent, but in no case shall such bond be less
  than  ten  thousand  dollars nor more than one hundred thousand dollars;
  provided however that if the superintendent determines, in  his  or  her
  sole  discretion,  that a registrant has engaged in a pattern of conduct
  resulting  in  bona  fide  consumer  complaints   of   misconduct,   the
  superintendent  may  require  such  registrant to post a surety bond, or
  keep on deposit as provided in this subdivision,  twice  the  amount  of
  such bond or deposit as is required consistent with such regulations. In
  the   event  of  the  insolvency,  liquidation  or  bankruptcy  of  such
  registrant, or the surrender or revocation  of  such  mortgage  broker's
  registration,  or  where  the  superintendent  takes  possession of such
  registrant, the proceeds of each bond  or  deposit  shall  constitute  a
  trust  fund  to  be used exclusively to reimburse consumer fees or other
  charges determined by the superintendent to  be  improperly  charged  or
  collected   and  to  pay  past  due  department  of  financial  services
  examination costs and assessments  charged  to  the  registrant,  unpaid
  penalties, or other obligations of the registrant. The superintendent is
  authorized to promulgate such regulations as are necessary and desirable
  to  define and implement the provisions of this subdivision. Persons and
  entities registered prior to the effective date of  any  regulations  of
  the  superintendent  implementing  or  modifying the bonding requirement
  authorized by this subdivision shall file such bond  or  establish  such
  deposit within six months of the effective date of such regulations.


::: 591:application_for_a_mortgage_bankers_license_fees.html
 
    &#167; 591.  Application  for  a  mortgage  banker's  license; fees. 1. The
  application for a license to be a mortgage banker shall be  in  writing,
  under   oath,   and  in  the  form  prescribed  by  the  superintendent.
  Notwithstanding article three of the state technology law or  any  other
  law  to the contrary, the superintendent may require that an application
  for, or renewal of, a license or any other submission or application for
  approval as may be required by this article,  be  made  or  executed  by
  electronic  means,  including  through  the  National Mortgage Licensing
  System and  Registry  or  other  entities  designated  by  the  National
  Mortgage  Licensing  System and Registry if he or she deems it necessary
  to ensure the efficient and effective administration  of  this  article.
  The  application  shall  contain  the  name  and  complete  business and
  residential address or addresses of the applicant. If the applicant is a
  partnership,  association,  corporation  or  other  form   of   business
  organization,  the  application  shall  contain  the  names and complete
  business  and  residential  addresses  of  each  member,  director   and
  principal  officer  thereof.  Such  application  shall  also  include  a
  description of the activities of the applicant, in such detail  and  for
  such periods, as the superintendent may require; including:
    (a)  An  affirmation  of financial solvency noting such capitalization
  requirements as may be required by the  superintendent,  and  access  to
  such credit as may be required by the superintendent;
    (b)  The  fingerprints of the applicant, which may be submitted to the
  division  of  criminal  justice  services  and  the  federal  bureau  of
  investigation for state and national criminal history record checks;
    (c)  An  affirmation  that the applicant, or its members, directors or
  principals as may be appropriate, are at least twenty-one years of age;
    (d) Information as to the character, fitness, financial  and  business
  responsibility, background and experiences of the applicant.
    2.  An  application  shall  be  accompanied by an investigation fee as
  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter payable to the
  superintendent.
    3. A licensee may apply for authority to open and  maintain  a  branch
  office  by  giving  the  superintendent prior notice of its intention in
  such form as shall be  prescribed  by  the  superintendent.  Unless  the
  superintendent  denies the application within thirty days of publication
  of notice of receipt of a completed application, the licensee  shall  be
  permitted  to  open  and  maintain such branch office. An application to
  open  and  maintain  a  branch  office  shall  be  accompanied   by   an
  investigation  fee  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this
  chapter.
    4. As a condition  for  the  issuance  and  retention  of  a  mortgage
  banker's  license, and subject to such regulations as the superintendent
  shall  prescribe,  applicants  for  a  license  shall  file   with   the
  superintendent  a  surety bond in form satisfactory to him or her issued
  by a bonding company or insurance company authorized to do  business  in
  this state.  The principal amount of such bond shall be in an amount and
  form  prescribed  by regulations of the superintendent. Such regulations
  shall provide for a varying bond amount based upon a  licensee's  volume
  of  business  and  any  other  relevant  factors  as  determined  by the
  superintendent, but in no case  shall  such  bond  be  less  than  fifty
  thousand  dollars nor more than five hundred thousand dollars; provided,
  however, that if the superintendent  determines,  in  his  or  her  sole
  discretion,  that  a  licensee  has  engaged  in  a  pattern  of conduct
  resulting  in  bona  fide  consumer  complaints   of   misconduct,   the
  superintendent  may require such licensee to post a surety bond, or keep
  on deposit as provided in this subdivision, twice  the  amount  of  such
  bond or deposit as is required consistent with such regulations. In lieu
  of  such bond, an applicant may keep on deposit with such banks, savings
  banks, savings and loan associations,  or  trust  companies  or  private
  bankers  or  national  banks or federal savings banks or federal savings
  and  loan  associations  in  the state of New York as such applicant may
  designate and the superintendent may  approve,  interest-bearing  stocks
  and  bonds, notes, debentures, or other obligations of the United States
  or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or guaranteed  by  the  United
  States,  or  of  this state, or of a city, county, town, village, school
  district, or instrumentality of this state or guaranteed by this  state,
  or  dollar  deposits,  or  such other assets or letters of credit as the
  superintendent shall by rule or regulation permit. In the event  of  the
  insolvency, liquidation or bankruptcy of such licensee, or the surrender
  or   revocation   of  such  mortgage  banker's  license,  or  where  the
  superintendent takes possession of such licensee, the proceeds  of  each
  bond  or deposit shall constitute a trust fund to be used exclusively to
  reimburse  consumer  fees   or   other   charges   determined   by   the
  superintendent to be improperly charged or collected and to pay past due
  department  of  financial  services  examination  costs  and assessments
  charged to the licensee, unpaid penalties, or other obligations  of  the
  licensee.   The   superintendent   is   authorized  to  promulgate  such
  regulations as are necessary and desirable to define and  implement  the
  provisions  of  this subdivision. Persons and entities licensed prior to
  the effective date of any regulations of the superintendent  prescribing
  the  bonding  requirement authorized by this subdivision shall file such
  bond or establish such deposit within six months of the  effective  date
  of such regulations.


::: 592-a:application_process_to_register_as_a_mortgage_broker.html
 
    &#167; 592-a. Application process to register as a mortgage broker. 1. Upon
  the  filing  of  an  application for registration, if the superintendent
  shall find that the financial responsibility, experience, character, and
  general fitness of the applicant, and of  the  members  thereof  if  the
  applicant  is  a  co-partnership or association, and of the officers and
  directors thereof if the applicant is a  corporation,  are  such  as  to
  command  the  confidence of the community and to warrant belief that the
  business will be operated honestly, fairly, and efficiently  within  the
  purpose of this article, the superintendent shall thereupon register the
  applicant  as a mortgage broker on a roll maintained for that purpose at
  the department of financial services, and issue a certificate  attesting
  to  such  registration  in duplicate. If the superintendent shall not so
  find, the superintendent shall not register such  applicant,  and  shall
  notify  the  applicant  of the denial. The superintendent shall transmit
  one copy of such certificate to the applicant and file  another  in  the
  office  of  the  department  of financial services. Upon receipt of such
  certificate a mortgage broker shall  be  authorized  to  engage  in  the
  business  of  placing,  processing  and negotiating mortgage loans. Such
  registration  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  until  it  is
  surrendered  by  the  licensee  or  revoked  or suspended as hereinafter
  provided, except that such registration, notwithstanding any  provisions
  of  subdivision  five  of  section  seventeen  of  this  chapter  to the
  contrary, shall expire upon the registrant's failure to pay the required
  assessment charged pursuant to such section seventeen thirty days  after
  the  date  or  dates such payment or payments are due. If the registrant
  fails to pay such charged assessment by the date or dates  such  payment
  or  payments  are  due, then the registrant shall be required to pay, in
  addition, a late  fee  in  the  amount  of  one  hundred  dollars.  Such
  registration  shall be reinstated if the registrant pays such assessment
  charged and any applicable late fees and/or interest within  sixty  days
  of  such  expiration.  The  superintendent  shall  approve or deny every
  application for registration  hereunder  within  ninety  days  from  the
  filing  of a complete application provided, however, that failure to act
  within the prescribed period shall not be deemed approval  of  any  such
  application.
    2.  The  superintendent  may refuse to issue a certificate pursuant to
  this article if he or she shall find that the applicant, or  any  person
  who  is  a  director,  officer,  partner,  agent,  employee, substantial
  stockholder of the applicant, consultant or person having a relationship
  with the applicant similar to a consultant, (a) has been convicted of  a
  crime  involving  an  activity  which  is a felony under this chapter or
  under article one hundred fifty-five, one hundred seventy,  one  hundred
  seventy-five,  one  hundred seventy-six, one hundred eighty, one hundred
  eighty-five, one hundred eighty-seven, one hundred ninety, two  hundred,
  two  hundred  ten  or  four  hundred  seventy  of  the  penal law or any
  comparable felony under the laws  of  any  other  state  or  the  United
  States,  provided  that  such  crime  would be a felony if committed and
  prosecuted under the laws of this state or (b)  has  had  a  license  or
  registration  revoked  by the superintendent or (c) has been a director,
  partner, or substantial stockholder of an entity which has had a license
  or registration revoked by the superintendent or (d) has been an  agent,
  employee  or  officer of an entity, or a consultant to, or person having
  had a similar relationship with, any entity which has had a  license  or
  registration  revoked by the superintendent where such person shall have
  been found by the superintendent to bear  responsibility  in  connection
  with the revocation. The term "substantial stockholder", as used in this
  subdivision,  shall be deemed to refer to a person owning or controlling
  directly or indirectly ten per centum or more of the  total  outstanding
  stock of a corporation.


::: 592:application_process_to_receive_license_to_engage_in_the_business_of_mortgage_banking.html
 
    &#167; 592.  Application  process  to  receive  license  to  engage  in the
  business of mortgage banking. 1. Upon the filing of an application for a
  license,  if  the  superintendent  shall   find   that   the   financial
  responsibility,  experience,  character,  and  general  fitness  of  the
  applicant  and  of  the  members  thereof  if   the   applicant   is   a
  co-partnership or association, and of the officers and directors thereof
  if  the applicant is a corporation are such as to command the confidence
  of the community and  to  warrant  belief  that  the  business  will  be
  operated  honestly,  fairly,  and efficiently within the purpose of this
  article, the superintendent shall thereupon issue a license in duplicate
  to engage in the business of making mortgage loans described in  section
  five  hundred  ninety  of  this article in accordance with provisions of
  this  article.  If  the  superintendent   shall   not   so   find,   the
  superintendent  shall  not  issue  such  license, and the superintendent
  shall notify the applicant  of  the  denial.  The  superintendent  shall
  transmit  one  copy of such license to the applicant and file another in
  the office of the department of financial services. Upon receipt of such
  license, a mortgage banker shall be authorized to engage in the business
  of making mortgage loans in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
  article.  Such license shall remain in full force and effect until it is
  surrendered by the licensee  or  revoked  or  suspended  as  hereinafter
  provided. The superintendent shall approve or deny every application for
  license  hereunder  within  ninety  days  from the filing of a completed
  application provided, however, that failure to act within the prescribed
  period shall not be deemed approval of any such application.
    2. The superintendent may refuse to issue a license pursuant  to  this
  article if he or she shall find that the applicant, or any person who is
  a  director,  officer, partner, agent, employee, substantial stockholder
  of the applicant, consultant or person having a  relationship  with  the
  applicant  similar  to  a  consultant, (a) has been convicted of a crime
  involving an activity which is a felony  under  this  chapter  or  under
  article  one  hundred  fifty-five,  one  hundred  seventy,  one  hundred
  seventy-five, one hundred seventy-six, one hundred eighty,  one  hundred
  eighty-five,  one hundred eighty-seven, one hundred ninety, two hundred,
  two hundred ten or  four  hundred  seventy  of  the  penal  law  or  any
  comparable  felony  under  the  laws  of  any  other state or the United
  States, provided that such crime would be  a  felony  if  committed  and
  prosecuted  under  the  laws  of  this state or (b) has had a license or
  registration revoked by the superintendent or (c) has been  a  director,
  partner, or substantial stockholder of an entity which has had a license
  or  registration revoked by the superintendent or (d) has been an agent,
  employee or officer of an entity, or a consultant to, or  person  having
  had  a  similar relationship with, any entity which has had a license or
  registration revoked by the superintendent where such person shall  have
  been  found  by  the superintendent to bear responsibility in connection
  with the revocation. The term "substantial stockholder", as used in this
  subdivision, shall be deemed to refer to a person owning or  controlling
  directly  or  indirectly ten per centum or more of the total outstanding
  stock of a corporation.


::: 593-a:registration_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 593-a.  Registration  provisions.  1.  Each  certificate issued to a
  registered mortgage broker under this article shall state the address or
  addresses at which the business is to be conducted and shall state fully
  the name of the registrant, and the date and place of its  incorporation
  if applicable. A copy of such certificate shall be prominently posted in
  each  place of business of the registrant. Such certificate shall not be
  transferable or assignable. In the  event  the  location  at  which  the
  business  is  to  be  conducted  shall  be changed, the registrant shall
  forthwith notify the superintendent who shall thereupon  without  charge
  attach  to  the  certificate an amendment certificate setting forth such
  changed location.
    2. In addition to the display of  such  certificate,  each  registered
  mortgage  broker  shall  prominently  display  a  notice  printed in the
  English language, each letter to be  at  least  two  inches  in  height,
  indicating  that  the  mortgage broker is not empowered to make mortgage
  loans, and such other notices  as  required  by  the  superintendent  of
  financial services.


::: 593:license_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 593.  License  provisions.  Each  license  issued under this article
  shall state the address or addresses at which  the  business  is  to  be
  conducted  and  shall state fully the name of the licensee, and the date
  and place of its incorporation if applicable. A  copy  of  such  license
  shall  be  prominently posted in each place of business of the licensee.
  Such license shall not be transferable or assignable. In the  event  the
  location  at which the business is to be conducted shall be changed, the
  licensee shall forthwith notify the superintendent who  shall  thereupon
  without  charge  attach  to the license an amendment certificate setting
  forth such changed location.


::: 594-b:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 594-b.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a  change  of  control  of  the  business  of a licensee or
  registrant. Prior to any change  of  control,  the  person  desirous  of
  acquiring control of the business of a licensee or registrant shall make
  written  application  to the superintendent and pay an investigation fee
  as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a  of  this  chapter  to  the
  superintendent.  The  application  shall contain such information as the
  superintendent, by rule or regulation, may  prescribe  as  necessary  or
  appropriate  for  the  purpose  of  making the determination required by
  subdivision two of this section. This information shall include but  not
  be limited to the information and other material required for a licensee
  by subdivision one of section five hundred ninety-one of this article or
  required  for  a  registrant  by subdivision one of section five hundred
  ninety-one-a of this article.
    2. The superintendent shall approve or disapprove the proposed  change
  of control of a licensee or registrant in accordance with the provisions
  of section five hundred ninety-two of this article relating to licensees
  or  section  five  hundred  ninety-two-a  of  this  article  relating to
  registrants.  The  superintendent  shall  approve  or   disapprove   the
  application in writing within ninety days after the date the application
  is filed with the superintendent.
    3.  For  a period of six months from the date of qualification thereof
  and for such  additional  period  of  time  as  the  superintendent  may
  prescribe,  in  writing,  the  provisions of subdivisions one and two of
  this section shall not apply to a transfer of control  by  operation  of
  law  to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who has
  control  of  a  licensee   or   registrant.   Thereafter,   such   legal
  representative  shall comply with the provisions of subdivisions one and
  two of this section.  The provisions of subdivisions one and two of this
  section shall be applicable to an application made under such section by
  a legal representative.
    The term "legal representative", for the  purposes  of  this  section,
  shall  mean  one  duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to
  act as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator  or
  receiver,  including  one  who  succeeds  a legal representative and one
  acting  in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with   the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4.  As  used  in  this  section:  (a)  the  term  "person" includes an
  individual,  partnership,  corporation,   association   or   any   other
  organization,  and (b) the term "control" means the possession, directly
  or indirectly, of the power to direct or  cause  the  direction  of  the
  management and policies of a licensee or registrant, whether through the
  ownership  of voting stock of such licensee or registrant, the ownership
  of voting stock of any person which possesses such power  or  otherwise.
  Control   shall  be  presumed  to  exist  if  any  person,  directly  or
  indirectly, owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten per centum or
  more of the voting stock of any licensee or registrant or of any  person
  which  owns, controls or holds with power to vote ten per centum or more
  of the voting stock of any licensee or registrant, but no  person  shall
  be  deemed to control a licensee or registrant solely by reason of being
  an officer or director of such licensee or  registrant  or  person.  The
  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application of a licensee
  or  registrant or any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls
  or holds with power to vote or seeks to own, control or hold with  power
  to  vote  any  voting  stock  of  such licensee or registrant, determine
  whether or not the ownership, control or holding of  such  voting  stock
  constitutes  or  would constitute control of such licensee or registrant
  for purposes of this section.


::: 594:changes_in_officers_and_directors.html
 
    &#167; 594.  Changes  in  officers and directors. Upon any change of any of
  the executive  officers,  partners  or  directors  of  any  licensee  or
  registrant,   the   licensee   or   registrant   shall   submit  to  the
  superintendent the name, address, and occupation of  each  new  officer,
  partner   or  director,  and  provide  such  other  information  as  the
  superintendent may require.


::: 595-a:regulation_of_mortgage_brokers_mortgage_bankers_and_exempt_organizations.html
 
    &#167; 595-a.  Regulation  of mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers and exempt
  organizations. 1. Establishment of grounds to impose a fine or  penalty.
  In  addition  to  such  other  rules,  regulations  and  policies as the
  superintendent of financial services may  prescribe  to  effectuate  the
  purposes of this article, the superintendent of financial services shall
  promulgate  regulations  and  policies  governing  the  establishment of
  grounds to impose a fine or penalty with respect to the activities of  a
  mortgage banker, mortgage broker or exempt organization. Such regulation
  shall encompass the following:
    (a)  The  misrepresentation  of  material facts or the making of false
  promises likely to influence, persuade, or induce  an  applicant  for  a
  mortgage loan or mortgagor to take a mortgage loan, or pursuing a course
  of misrepresentation or false promises through agents or otherwise;
    (b)  The  misrepresentation,  or  concealment of any material factors,
  terms or conditions of a transaction to which he is a  party,  including
  the receipt of payment from a third party, pertinent to an applicant for
  a mortgage loan or a mortgagor;
    (c)  The  failure  to  disburse  funds  in  accordance  with a written
  commitment or agreement to make a mortgage loan;
    (d) The failure to account for or deliver to any person  any  personal
  property  obtained  in  connection  with  a mortgage loan such as money,
  fund, deposit, check, draft, mortgage, or other document,  or  thing  of
  value,  which has come into his hands, and which is not his property, or
  which he is not in law or equity entitled to retain;
    (e) The improper refusal to issue a satisfaction of mortgage;
    (f) Engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business which
  operates a fraud upon any person in connection with the purchase or sale
  of any mortgage loan;
    (g) Violation of section six-j of this chapter; and
    (h) Making a mortgage loan, or indirectly or  directly  providing  for
  the  making  of  a  mortgage loan, to an equity purchaser, as defined in
  section two hundred sixty-five-a  of  the  real  property  law,  if  the
  mortgage  banker,  mortgage  broker or exempt organization had knowledge
  that the equity purchaser was  not  complying  with  the  provisions  of
  section  two  hundred sixty-five-a of the real property law with respect
  to such transaction.
    2. Restrictions on advertising.  In  addition  to  such  other  rules,
  regulations and policies as the superintendent of financial services may
  promulgate   to   effectuate   the   purposes   of   this  article,  the
  superintendent  of  financial  services  shall   prescribe   regulations
  governing   the   advertising  of  mortgage  loans,  including,  without
  limitation, the following requirements:
    (a) All advertisements by a mortgage broker, mortgage banker or exempt
  organization shall contain the  name  and  an  office  address  of  such
  entity,  which in the case of licensees and registrants shall conform to
  a name and address on record with the department of financial services;
    (b) No licensed mortgage broker or mortgage banker shall advertise its
  services in any media, whether print or electronic,  without  the  words
  "registered  mortgage  broker"  or "licensed mortgage banker" or similar
  words therein;
    (c) No mortgage broker, mortgage banker or exempt  organization  shall
  advertise   information  concerning  mortgage  loans,  including  rates,
  margins,  discounts,  points,  fees,  commissions  or   other   material
  information,  including  material limitations on such loans, unless such
  entity is able to make such mortgage loans  available  to  a  reasonable
  number of qualified applicants;
    (d)  All  advertisements  by  mortgage  brokers  must include language
  indicating that such brokers may not make loans; and
    (e) The term "advertisement" shall not  include  promotional  material
  containing  fifteen  words  or less which does not contain references to
  specific rates, points, discounts, fees, material  loan  factors,  etc.,
  such as imprinted pencils, pens or balloons.
    3.  Required disclosures. In addition to such other rules, regulations
  and policies as the superintendent of financial services may  promulgate
  to  effectuate  the  purposes  of  this  article,  the superintendent of
  financial services shall promulgate regulations governing the disclosure
  required to be made  to  applicants  for  a  mortgage  loan,  including,
  without limitation, the following requirements:
    (a)  Each  mortgage  broker,  mortgage  banker and exempt organization
  shall provide to each applicant for a mortgage loan  at  or  before  the
  time  of  application  a  disclosure  of the fees payable at the time of
  application and the conditions under which such fees may be  refundable,
  and such other disclosures as shall be required by the superintendent of
  financial services;
    (b)  Each mortgage banker and exempt organization shall make available
  to each applicant for a mortgage loan at or before the time a commitment
  to make a mortgage loan is given a written disclosure, the  fees  to  be
  paid  in  connection  with the commitment and the loan, or the manner in
  which such fees shall be determined and the conditions under which  such
  fees may be refundable, and such other disclosures as may be required by
  the superintendent of financial services; and
    (c)  In  each  lock-in agreement it shall issue, every mortgage banker
  and exempt organization shall include a list of all documents  typically
  required  to  be  produced  and  conditions  typically  required  to  be
  satisfied for closing of a mortgage loan based on  information  provided
  by  the  applicant.  In  each  commitment it shall issue, every mortgage
  banker and exempt organization shall include a  list  of  all  documents
  foreseeably  required to be produced and conditions foreseeably required
  to be satisfied for closing of a  mortgage  loan  based  on  information
  provided  by  the  applicant. In addition, no later than twelve business
  days prior to the expiration of any lock-in period or commitment period,
  a mortgage banker or exempt organization shall mail  to  each  applicant
  for  a  mortgage  loan  a  notice indicating the date of such expiration
  together  with  a  request  that  the  applicant  contact   the   lender
  immediately  to  discuss the conditions precedent to the closing of such
  loan; and
    (d) Each mortgage broker,  mortgage  banker  and  exempt  organization
  shall  provide  such other disclosure as the superintendent of financial
  services shall determine by regulation are appropriate to carry out  the
  purposes of this article.
    4.  Restrictions  on tying. (a) No mortgage banker, mortgage broker or
  exempt organization shall, as a condition for the approval of a mortgage
  loan, require the use of a particular  title  insurance  company,  title
  insurance  agency  or  title  insurance  agent or, for any other type of
  insurance, require the use of a particular insurer, agent or broker.
    (b) A bank, trust company, savings bank, savings and loan  association
  or  national  bank  which  operates in compliance with the provisions of
  paragraph (e) of subdivision seven of section twelve-a of  this  chapter
  and  paragraph  two  of  subdivision  (a)  of  section two thousand five
  hundred two of the insurance law shall be deemed  to  be  in  compliance
  with this subdivision.
    5.  No  licensee or registrant engaging in any activities constituting
  the business of  a  distressed  property  consultant,  as  described  in
  section  two hundred sixty-five-b of the real property law, shall charge
  for or accept payment for real property consulting services  as  defined
  in such section before the full completion of such services.


::: 595-b:regulation_of_mortgage_loan_servicers.html
 
    &#167;  595-b.  Regulation  of mortgage loan servicers. 1. Establishment of
  grounds to impose a fine or penalty. In addition to  such  other  rules,
  regulations  and  policies  as  the  superintendent  may  promulgate  to
  effectuate the  purposes  of  this  article,  the  superintendent  shall
  promulgate  regulations  and  policies  governing  the  establishment of
  grounds to impose a fine or penalty with respect to the activities of  a
  mortgage loan servicer.
    2.  Servicing  practices. In addition to such other rules, regulations
  and policies as the superintendent  may  promulgate  to  effectuate  the
  purposes  of  this article, the superintendent may prescribe regulations
  which relate to: (a) providing for disclosures to borrowers of the basis
  for any interest rate resets; (b)  requirements  for  the  provision  of
  pay-off  statements;  and  (c)  governing the timing of the crediting of
  payments made by the borrower.


::: 595-c:regulation_of_dealings_of_mortgage_brokers_and_home_improvement_contractors.html
 
    &#167;   595-c.  Regulation  of  dealings  of  mortgage  brokers  and  home
  improvement contractors. 1.  No  home  improvement  contractor  nor  any
  agents  or salespersons thereof shall represent, act as an agent for, or
  advertise, promote or arrange for the services of a mortgage  broker  or
  its  affiliate  while  soliciting home improvement contracts nor receive
  anything of value from a  mortgage  broker  or  its  affiliate  for  the
  referral  of  a  borrower  to  a  mortgage  broker.  The staff of a home
  improvement contractor shall not act on behalf of a mortgage  broker  in
  any transaction.
    2.  Where  a  mortgage  broker  has  solicited,  processed,  placed or
  negotiated a mortgage loan, a home improvement contractor shall  not  be
  paid  directly  but  instead  may receive payment from the proceeds of a
  home improvement loan payable solely to the borrower or, at the election
  of the borrower, through an independent  third  party  escrow  agent  in
  accordance  with  the terms established in a written agreement signed by
  the borrower, the lender and the contractor  prior  to  disbursement.  A
  mortgage  broker  shall  not  offer  a  homeowner  different  loan terms
  contingent on the homeowner executing an agreement for  payment  through
  an  independent  third party as described in the preceding sentence. Any
  such agreement shall contain a clear and conspicuous disclosure: YOU ARE
  NOT REQUIRED TO EXECUTE THIS AGREEMENT. YOU MAY INSTEAD RECEIVE  PAYMENT
  DIRECTLY. (NAME OF MORTGAGE BROKER) MAY NOT OFFER YOU DIFFERENT TERMS ON
  YOUR  LOAN  TO  SIGN  THIS AGREEMENT. The provisions of this subdivision
  shall not apply to a  home  improvement  loan  insured  by  the  federal
  housing administration under section 203(k) of the National Housing Act,
  12   U.S.C.   1709(k),   or  to  amounts  added  to  a  federal  housing
  administration insured mortgage under  the  energy  efficiency  mortgage
  program  originally  established  under section 106 of the Energy Policy
  Act of 1992, as from time to time amended.
    3. A mortgage broker shall not permit a home improvement contractor to
  be a cosigner or to act as a guarantor for  a  mortgage  loan  for  home
  improvement.
    4.  For  the  purpose  of this section, "home improvement contractor",
  means,  with  respect  to  any  home  improvement,  a  person,  firm  or
  corporation  which  owns  or operates a home improvement business or who
  undertakes,  offers  to  undertake  or  agrees  to  perform   any   home
  improvement  for  a  fee  and  for  whom  the total price for all labor,
  materials and other items is  equal  to  or  greater  than  two  hundred
  dollars.  Home  improvement  contractor does not include a person, firm,
  corporation, landlord, cooperative  corporation,  condominium  board  of
  managers,  joint tenant or co-tenant that owns, in whole or in part, the
  property to be improved.
    5. This section shall not annul, alter, affect or  exempt  any  person
  subject  to the provisions of this section from complying with the laws,
  ordinances, rules or regulations of any locality or  other  governmental
  body,  relating to home improvement contracts, except to the extent that
  such laws, ordinances, rules or regulations are  inconsistent  with  any
  provision  of  this  section,  but  no  such  law,  ordinance,  rule  or
  regulation shall be  considered  inconsistent,  if  it  affords  greater
  protection to the homeowner from persons subject to this section.


::: 595:grounds_for_suspension_or_revocation_of_license_or_suspension_or_deletion_of_name_from_mortgage_broker_roll.html
 
    &#167;  595. Grounds for suspension or revocation of license, or suspension
  or deletion of name from mortgage broker roll. 1. The superintendent may
  revoke any license to engage in the business of a mortgage banker issued
  pursuant to this article or delete the name of a  mortgage  broker  from
  the  roll  of mortgage brokers registered pursuant to this article if he
  shall find that:
    (a) Through a course  of  conduct,  the  licensee  or  registrant  has
  violated  any  provisions  of  this  article,  or any rule or regulation
  promulgated by the superintendent of financial services, or any rule  or
  regulation  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  under  and  within  the
  authority of this article or of any other law,  rule  or  regulation  of
  this state or the federal government;
    (b)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the original application for such license or registration, would have
  warranted the  superintendent  in  refusing  originally  to  issue  such
  license;
    (c)  The commission by a licensee or registrant of a crime against the
  laws of this state or any other state or of the United States  involving
  moral  turpitude  or  fraudulent or dishonest dealing, or the entry of a
  final judgment against a licensee or registrant in a civil  action  upon
  grounds of fraud, misrepresentation or deceit;
    (d)   As   a  part  of  such  determination  regarding  suspension  or
  revocation,  the   superintendent   is   authorized   to   require   the
  fingerprinting of any licensee or registrant. Such fingerprints shall be
  submitted  to  the  division  of  criminal  justice services for a state
  criminal history record check, as defined in subdivision one of  section
  three thousand thirty-five of the education law, and may be submitted to
  the  federal  bureau  of  investigation  for a national criminal history
  record check.
    2. The superintendent may, on good cause shown, or where  there  is  a
  substantial  risk of public harm, suspend any license or delete the name
  of any registrant for  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  days,  pending
  investigation.  "Good  cause",  as used in this subdivision, shall exist
  only when the licensee or registrant  has  defaulted  or  is  likely  to
  default  in performing its financial engagements or engages in dishonest
  or inequitable practices which may cause substantial harm to the persons
  afforded the protection of this article.
    3. Except as provided in subdivision two of this section,  no  license
  or  registration shall be revoked or suspended except after notice and a
  hearing thereon. Any order of  suspension  issued  after  notice  and  a
  hearing may include as a condition of reinstatement that the licensee or
  registrant  make restitution to consumers of fees or other charges which
  have  been  improperly  charged  or  collected  as  determined  by   the
  superintendent.
    4. Any licensee or registrant may surrender any license or certificate
  by  delivering  to  the  superintendent  written  notice that it thereby
  surrenders such license or certificate, but  such  surrender  shall  not
  affect  such  licensee's or registrant's civil or criminal liability for
  acts committed prior to such surrender. If such surrender is made  after
  the  issuance by the superintendent of a statement of charges and notice
  of hearing, the superintendent  may  proceed  against  the  licensee  or
  registrant as if such surrender had not taken place.
    4-a.  An  expiration  of  registration in accordance with section five
  hundred ninety-two-a of this article shall not affect such  registrant's
  civil   or   criminal   liability  for  acts  committed  prior  to  such
  expirations. If  such  expiration  occurs  after  the  issuance  by  the
  superintendent  of  a  statement  of  charges and notice of hearing, the
  superintendent may proceed against the registrant as if such  expiration
  had not taken place.
    5.  No  revocation, suspension, surrender or expiration of any license
  or certificate shall impair or affect the obligation of any  preexisting
  lawful contract between the licensee or registrant and any person.
    6. Every license or registration issued pursuant to this article shall
  remain  in  force  and  effect  until  the  same  shall  have expired in
  accordance with section five hundred ninety-two-a  of  this  article  or
  shall have been surrendered, revoked or suspended in accordance with any
  other  provisions  of  this  article,  but the superintendent shall have
  authority to reinstate a suspended license or certificate or to issue  a
  new  license or certificate to a licensee or registrant whose license or
  registration shall have been revoked if no fact or condition then exists
  which would have warranted the superintendent in refusing originally  to
  issue such license or registration under this article.
    7.  Whenever  the  superintendent shall revoke or suspend a license or
  registration issued pursuant to this article, he shall forthwith execute
  in duplicate a written order to that effect.  The  superintendent  shall
  file one copy of such order in the office of the department of financial
  services  and  shall forthwith serve the other copy upon the licensee or
  registrant. Any such order may be reviewed in  the  manner  provided  by
  article  seventy-eight  of  the  civil  practice  law  and  rules.  Such
  application for review as authorized by this section must be made within
  thirty days from the date of such order of suspension or revocation.
    7-a. Whenever a registration shall have  expired  in  accordance  with
  section  five  hundred  ninety-two-a of this article, the superintendent
  shall notify the registrant that the registration has expired  and  that
  the registrant may not engage in the business of soliciting, processing,
  placing  or negotiating a mortgage loan or offering to solicit, process,
  place or negotiate a mortgage loan in this state.
    8. Any hearing held pursuant to the provisions of this  section  shall
  be  noticed,  conducted  and  administered  in compliance with the state
  administrative procedure act.


::: 596:superintendent_authorized_to_examine_expenses.html
 
    &#167; 596. Superintendent authorized to examine; expenses. For the purpose
  of  discovering  violations  of  this  article  or  securing information
  lawfully required by him hereunder, the superintendent may at any  time,
  and  as  often  as  he  or  she may determine, either personally or by a
  person duly designated by him, investigate the business and examine  the
  books,  accounts,  records,  and  files  used therein of every licensee,
  servicer and registrant. For that purpose the superintendent and his  or
  her duly designated representative shall have free access to the offices
  and  places  of business, books, accounts, papers, records, files, safes
  and vaults  of  all  such  licensees,  servicers  and  registrants.  The
  superintendent  and  any person duly designated by him or her shall have
  authority to require the attendance of and to  examine  under  oath  all
  persons whose testimony he or she may require relative to such business.
  The expenses incurred in making any examination pursuant to this section
  shall  be  assessed  against  and  paid  by  the  licensee,  servicer or
  registrant so examined, except that traveling and  subsistence  expenses
  so incurred shall be charged against and paid by licensees, servicers or
  registrants  in  such  proportions as the superintendent shall deem just
  and reasonable, and such proportionate charges shall  be  added  to  the
  assessment  of  the  other expenses incurred upon each examination. Upon
  written notice by  the  superintendent  of  the  total  amount  of  such
  assessment, the licensee, servicer or registrant shall become liable for
  and shall pay such assessment to the superintendent.
    In  any  hearing  in which the bank examiner acting under authority of
  this chapter is available for cross-examination,  any  official  written
  report, worksheet, other related papers, or duly certified copy thereof,
  compiled,  prepared,  drafted,  or otherwise made by said bank examiner,
  after being duly authenticated by said  examiner,  may  be  admitted  as
  competent  evidence  upon the oath of said examiner that said worksheet,
  investigative report, or other related  documents  were  prepared  as  a
  result  of  an  examination  of  the  books  and  records of a licensee,
  servicer or registrant  or  other  person,  conducted  pursuant  to  the
  authority of this chapter.


::: 597:books_and_records_reports_and_electronic_filing.html
 
    &#167; 597.   Books  and  records;  reports  and  electronic  filing.  Each
  licensee, servicer, registrant and exempt organization  shall  keep  and
  use  in its business such books, accounts and records as will enable the
  superintendent to determine whether such licensee, servicer,  registrant
  or  exempt organization is complying with the provisions of this article
  and with the rules and regulations lawfully made by  the  superintendent
  and  the superintendent of financial services. Every licensee, servicer,
  registrant and exempt organization shall preserve such books,  accounts,
  and   records,  for  at  least  three  years;  provided,  however,  that
  preservation  by  photographic  reproduction  thereof  or   records   in
  photographic  form, including an optical disk storage system and the use
  of electronic data processing equipment that provides comparable records
  to those otherwise required and which are available for examination upon
  request shall  constitute  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  this
  section.
    Each licensee and registrant shall annually, on or before a date to be
  determined  by the superintendent, file a report with the superintendent
  giving such information as the superintendent may require concerning the
  business and operations during  the  preceding  calendar  year  of  such
  licensee  or  registrant  under  authority  of this article. Such report
  shall be subscribed and affirmed as true by the licensee  or  registrant
  under  the  penalties  of perjury and shall be in the form prescribed by
  the superintendent. In addition to annual  reports,  the  superintendent
  may  require such additional regular or special reports as he or she may
  deem necessary to the proper supervision of  licensees  and  registrants
  under  this  article.  Such  additional  reports  shall  be  in the form
  prescribed by the superintendent and shall be subscribed and affirmed as
  true under the penalties of perjury.
    Notwithstanding article three of the state technology law or any other
  law to the contrary, the superintendent may require that any application
  for, or renewal of, any license or registration or any other  submission
  or approval as may be required by the superintendent be made or executed
  by  electronic  means  if  he  or  she  deems it necessary to ensure the
  efficient administration of this article.
    The superintendent may require servicers to  file  annual  reports  or
  other  regular  or  special  reports,  including reports with respect to
  mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures. Such reports shall  be  in  the
  form  prescribed  by  the  superintendent  and  shall  be subscribed and
  affirmed as true under the penalties of perjury.


::: 598:additional_penalties_for_violation_of_this_article_civil_criminal_liquidated_damages.html
 
    &#167; 598.  Additional  penalties  for  violation  of this article; civil,
  criminal; liquidated damages. 1. In addition to such  penalties  as  may
  otherwise be applicable by law, the superintendent may, after notice and
  hearing  as  provided  elsewhere  in  this  article, require any entity,
  licensee, servicer, registrant or exempt  organization  found  violating
  the  provisions  of this article or the rules or regulations promulgated
  hereunder to pay to the people of this state an additional  penalty  for
  each  violation  of  the article or any regulation or policy promulgated
  hereunder a sum not to  exceed  an  amount  as  determined  pursuant  to
  section forty-four of this chapter for each such violation.
    2.  Whoever  violates  any  provision of the licensing requirements of
  subparagraphs (a) and (b) of subdivision two  of  section  five  hundred
  ninety  of this article by making a mortgage loan without being licensed
  or specifically exempted  from  licensing,  or  soliciting,  processing,
  placing  or  negotiating  a  mortgage  loan  without being registered or
  specifically exempted from registration, shall be guilty of  a  class  A
  misdemeanor,  punishable  as  provided in articles seventy and eighty of
  the penal law.
    3. Liquidated damages. In  addition  to  any  other  remedy  which  an
  applicant  for a mortgage loan or mortgagor may have against a licensee,
  registrant or exempt organization for breach of contract or agreement to
  make a mortgage loan, the court after considering the circumstances  may
  award  the  plaintiff,  upon  granting  a  judgment  in  his favor in an
  individual action on such claim, liquidated damages an amount  equal  to
  twice  the  amount of any fees or other charges paid by the applicant or
  mortgagor in connection with such contract or agreement exclusive of any
  amounts paid or payable after the mortgage or other security  instrument
  is executed.
    4.  Statutory  or  common-law  remedies. Nothing in this article shall
  limit any statutory or common-law right  of  any  person  to  bring  any
  action in any court for any act, or the right of the state to punish any
  person for any violation of any law.
    5.  Civil  penalties  assessable  against  unlicensed  or unregistered
  persons or entities. If any non-exempt unlicensed or unregistered person
  or entity engages in activities encompassed by this article, he shall be
  liable to any person or entity affected by such activities for a sum  of
  money of not less than the amount of money paid to an affected person or
  entity in connection with such activities, nor more than four times such
  sum.  Such sum may be sued for and recovered by any person or entity for
  his use and benefit in any court of competent jurisdiction.


::: 599-a:legislative_purpose.html
 
    &#167;  599-a.  Legislative purpose. The legislature deems it necessary, in
  order to enhance consumer protection, reduce fraud and ensure the public
  welfare, that mortgage loan originators who originate mortgage loans  on
  residential real property be subject to regulation by the superintendent
  and  that  such regulation be consistent with Title V of The Housing and
  Economic Recovery Act of 2008,  also  known  as  the  S.A.F.E.  Mortgage
  Licensing  Act,  as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
  thereunder or interpretations thereof, that may be adopted from time  to
  time  by  the  Secretary  of  the  U.S.  Department of Housing and Urban
  Development.


::: 599-b:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 599-b. Definitions. As used in this article:
    1. "Annual expiration date" means December thirty-first of each year.
    2.  "Depository  institution" has the same meaning as in section three
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and includes any credit union.
    3. "Federal banking agencies" means the  Board  of  Governors  of  the
  Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Director of
  the   Office   of   Thrift   Supervision,   the  National  Credit  Union
  Administration, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    4. "Immediate family member" means a spouse, child,  sibling,  parent,
  grandparent,  or  grandchild.  This  includes stepparents, stepchildren,
  stepsiblings and adoptive relationships.
    5. "Individual" means a natural person.
    6. Loan processor or underwriter-
    (a) "Loan processor or underwriter" means an individual  who  performs
  clerical  or  support  duties  as  an  employee  at the direction of and
  subject to the supervision and instruction  of  a  person  licensed,  or
  exempt from licensing, under this article, provided that such individual
  does  not represent to the public, through advertising or other means of
  communicating or providing information, including the  use  of  business
  cards,  stationery,  brochures,  signs, rate lists, or other promotional
  items, that such individual can or will perform any of the activities of
  a mortgage loan originator.
    (b) For purposes of this subdivision, "clerical or support duties" may
  include, subsequent to the receipt of an application:
    (i) the receipt, collection, distribution, and analysis of information
  common for the processing or  underwriting  of  a  residential  mortgage
  loan; and
    (ii) communicating with a consumer to obtain the information necessary
  for  the  processing  or underwriting of a loan, to the extent that such
  communication does not include offering or  negotiating  loan  rates  or
  terms,  or counseling consumers about residential mortgage loan rates or
  terms.
    7. Mortgage loan originator (MLO) --
    (a)  "Mortgage  Loan  Originator"  means   an   individual   who   for
  compensation or gain or in the expectation of compensation or gain:
    (i) takes a residential mortgage loan application; or
    (ii) offers or negotiates terms of a residential mortgage loan.
    (b) Does not include:
    (i)  any  individual engaged solely as a loan processor or underwriter
  except as otherwise provided in subdivision four of section five hundred
  ninety-nine-c of this article;
    (ii) an individual who performs only real estate brokerage  activities
  and  is  licensed  or  registered in accordance with applicable New York
  law, unless the individual  is  compensated  by  a  lender,  a  mortgage
  broker,  or  other  mortgage  loan  originator  or  by any agent of such
  lender, mortgage broker, or other mortgage loan originator; and
    (iii) an individual solely involved in extensions of  credit  relating
  to timeshare plans, as that term is defined in section 101(53D) of title
  11, United States Code.
    (c)  For  purposes  of  this article, "real estate brokerage activity"
  means any activity that  involves  offering  or  providing  real  estate
  brokerage services to the public, including:
    (i)  acting  as a real estate agent or real estate broker for a buyer,
  seller, lessor, or lessee of real property;
    (ii) bringing together  parties  interested  in  the  sale,  purchase,
  lease, rental, or exchange of real property;
    (iii)  negotiating,  on behalf of any party, any portion of a contract
  relating to the sale, purchase,  lease,  rental,  or  exchange  of  real
  property (other than in connection with providing financing with respect
  to any such transaction);
    (iv)  engaging  in  any  activity  for  which  a person engaged in the
  activity is required to be registered or licensed as a real estate agent
  or real estate broker under any applicable law; and
    (v) offering to engage in  any  activity,  or  act  in  any  capacity,
  described in subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this paragraph.
    8.  "Residential  mortgage loan" shall mean a loan to a natural person
  made primarily for personal, family or household use, secured by  either
  a  mortgage,  deed  of  trust  or  other  equivalent consensual security
  interest on a dwelling (as defined in section 1203(v) of  the  Truth  in
  Lending Act) or residential real property or any certificate of stock or
  other   evidence   of  ownership  in,  and  proprietary  lease  from,  a
  corporation  or  partnership  formed  for  the  purpose  of  cooperative
  ownership  of  residential real property and shall include any refinance
  or modification of any such existing loan.
    9. "Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry" (NMLSR) means a
  mortgage licensing system developed and maintained by the Conference  of
  State  Bank  Supervisors  and  the  American  Association of Residential
  Mortgage Regulators for  the  licensing  and  registration  of  licensed
  mortgage loan originators.
    10.  "Nontraditional  mortgage  product"  means,  for purposes of this
  article, any mortgage  product  other  than  a  thirty-year  fixed  rate
  mortgage.
    11.  "Originating  entity"  means  a  person  or  entity  licensed  or
  registered pursuant to article twelve-D of this chapter  or  such  other
  employer of mortgage loan originators as the superintendent may approve.
    12.  "Person" means an individual or any corporation, company, limited
  liability company, partnership, association or other entity.
    13. "Registered mortgage loan originator" means any individual who:
    (a) Meets the  definition  of  mortgage  loan  originator  and  is  an
  employee of:
    (i) a depository institution;
    (ii)  a  subsidiary  that  is  owned  and  controlled  by a depository
  institution and regulated by a federal banking agency; or
    (iii) an institution regulated by the Farm Credit Administration; and
    (b) Is registered with, and maintains a unique identifier through, the
  NMLSR.
    14. "Residential real property" shall mean real  property  located  in
  this  state  improved  by  a one-to-four family residence or residential
  unit in a building used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied,
  wholly or partly, as the home or residence of one or more  persons,  but
  shall not refer to unimproved real property upon which such residence is
  to be constructed.
    15. "Unique identifier" means a number or other identifier assigned by
  protocols established by the NMLSR.


::: 599-c:license_required.html
 
    &#167;  599-c. License required. 1. License required. No individual, unless
  specifically exempt pursuant to subdivision three of this section  shall
  engage in the business of a mortgage loan originator with respect to any
  dwelling  or  residential  real  property  in  this  state without first
  obtaining and maintaining annually a license under  this  article.  Each
  licensed  mortgage  loan  originator  must  register with and maintain a
  valid unique identifier issued by the NMLSR.
    2. Effective date. In order to facilitate  an  orderly  transition  to
  licensing and minimize disruption in the mortgage marketplace:
    (a)  Each  individual, other than an individual described in paragraph
  (b) of this subdivision, shall be licensed pursuant to  subdivision  one
  of  this  section not later than July thirty-first, two thousand ten, or
  such later date approved for mortgage loan originators in this state  by
  the  Secretary  of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
  pursuant to the authority granted  under  Public  Law  110-289,  Section
  1508(a) and approved by the superintendent;
    (b)  Each  individual  authorized  as a mortgage loan originator under
  prior law not later than July thirty-first, two thousand nine, shall  be
  licensed  pursuant  to  subdivision  one  of this section not later than
  January first, two thousand eleven, or  such  later  date  approved  for
  mortgage  loan  originators  in  this state by the Secretary of the U.S.
  Department of Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to  the  authority
  granted  under  Public  Law 110-289, Section 1508(a) and approved by the
  superintendent.
    (c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subdivision,  after
  the  effective  date  of  this  article,  no  individual  shall act as a
  mortgage loan originator if such individual has been  convicted  of,  or
  pled  guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony of the types and during the
  time periods described in paragraph (b) of subdivision  one  of  section
  five  hundred  ninety-nine-e  of this article, in a domestic, foreign or
  military court, unless expressly authorized to act as  a  mortgage  loan
  originator by the superintendent.
    3.  Exemption  from  licensing requirements. The following persons are
  exempt from the licensing requirements otherwise applicable  under  this
  article:
    (a)  Registered  mortgage  loan originators, when acting for an entity
  described in subparagraphs (i), (ii)  and  (iii)  of  paragraph  (a)  of
  subdivision  thirteen  of  section  five  hundred  ninety-nine-b of this
  article.
    (b) Any individual who offers or negotiates the terms of a residential
  mortgage loan with or on behalf of an immediate  family  member  of  the
  individual.
    (c)  Any  individual  who  offers or negotiates terms of a residential
  mortgage loan secured by a dwelling or residential  real  property  that
  served as the individual's own residence.
    (d)  A  licensed  attorney  who  negotiates the terms of a residential
  mortgage loan on behalf of a  client  as  an  ancillary  matter  to  the
  attorney's   representation  of  the  client,  unless  the  attorney  is
  compensated by a lender, a  mortgage  broker,  or  other  mortgage  loan
  originator  or  by  any  agent of such lender, mortgage broker, or other
  mortgage loan originator.
    (e) Any individual employed by a  mortgage  loan  servicer  registered
  under  article twelve-D of this chapter, who negotiates any modification
  of an existing residential mortgage loan on behalf of such servicer, and
  does not otherwise act as a mortgage loan originator,  unless  licensing
  is required by a rule, regulation, guideline or interpretation issued by
  the  U.S.  Department  of Housing and Urban Development under Public Law
  110-289.
    (f) Any individual involved in  the  sale  of  manufactured  homes  if
  exempted   from   licensing   by   a   rule,  regulation,  guideline  or
  interpretation issued by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban
  Development under Public Law 110-289.
    4.  Independent  contractor  loan  processors  or underwriters. A loan
  processor  or  underwriter  who  is  an  independent  contractor  of  an
  originating   entity   may  not  engage  in  residential  mortgage  loan
  origination activities unless such independent contractor loan processor
  or underwriter obtains and maintains a license under this article.  Each
  independent  contractor  loan  processor  or  underwriter  licensed as a
  mortgage  loan  originator  must  have  and  maintain  a  valid   unique
  identifier issued by the NMLSR.


::: 599-d:state_license_application.html
 
    &#167; 599-d. State license application. 1. Form of application. Applicants
  for a license under this article shall apply on a form prescribed by the
  superintendent.  Each  such  form  shall contain content as set forth by
  rule, regulation, instruction or procedure of the superintendent and may
  be changed or updated as necessary by the  superintendent  in  order  to
  carry  out the purposes of this article. As part of such application and
  notwithstanding section eighteen-a of this chapter,  the  applicant  (or
  his  or  her originating entity on his or her behalf) shall pay a fee as
  determined by the superintendent as an investigation and initial license
  fee; provided, however, that the investigation portion of such fee shall
  be no more than the superintendent's reasonable estimate of  the  actual
  cost  or  costs to the department to undertake such investigation of the
  applicant, and the initial license portion of such fee  and  the  annual
  license  fee  as  hereafter required pursuant to this article shall be a
  license fee amount determined by the superintendent.
    2. Charges to originating entities. Any expense of the  administration
  of  this  article  with  respect  to  the  licensing  of  mortgage  loan
  originators that is included with an assessment of originating  entities
  pursuant  to section seventeen of this chapter shall be levied only upon
  such originating entities having employed or  affiliated  mortgage  loan
  originators that are required to be licensed.
    3.  Fee  collection by the NMLSR. Any fee established pursuant to this
  section may be collected by the  NMLSR  and  include  a  processing  fee
  charged  by  that entity. Any such processing fees shall not be remitted
  to the superintendent and shall not be deemed revenue pursuant  to  this
  section or the state finance law.
    4.  Relationship  with NMLSR. In order to fulfill the purposes of this
  article, the superintendent is authorized to  establish  contracts  with
  the  NMLSR  or  other  entities  designated  by the NMLSR to collect and
  maintain records and process transaction fees or other fees  related  to
  licensees or other persons subject to this article.
    5.  Waiver  or  modification  of  requirements.  The superintendent is
  authorized to waive or modify, in whole or part, by rule, regulation  or
  order,  any  and  all  requirements of this article and to establish new
  requirements as may be reasonably necessary to participate in the  NMLSR
  or  to  comply  with Title V of The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of
  2008, also known as the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act, as  it  may  be
  amended from time to time, and regulations thereunder or interpretations
  thereof,  that  may be adopted from time to time by the Secretary of the
  U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
    6. Electronic filing.  Notwithstanding  article  three  of  the  state
  technology  law or any other law to the contrary, the superintendent may
  require that any application for, or renewal of, a license  or  for  any
  other submission or approval as may be required by this article, be made
  or  executed  by  electronic means, including through the NMLSR or other
  entities designated by the NMLSR if he or  she  deems  it  necessary  to
  ensure the efficient and effective administration of this article.
    7.  NMLSR  as agent to distribute criminal background information. For
  the purposes of this section and in order to expedite the processing  of
  all fingerprints, the superintendent is authorized to use the NMLSR as a
  channeling  agent  for  requesting  information  from  and  distributing
  information to the  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  or  any  governmental
  agency.
    8.  NMLSR  as agent to distribute non-criminal background information.
  For the purposes of this section and in order to expedite the processing
  of all applications, including obtaining independent credit reports  and
  information related to administrative, civil or criminal findings by any
  governmental  jurisdiction,  the superintendent is authorized to use the
  NMLSR as a channeling agent for requesting and distributing  information
  to and from any source.
    9.  Background  information.  In  connection  with  an application for
  licensing as a mortgage loan  originator,  the  applicant  shall,  at  a
  minimum, furnish to the NMLSR and the superintendent, as required by the
  superintendent,   information   concerning   the  applicant's  identity,
  including:
    (a)  Fingerprints  for   submission   to   the   Federal   Bureau   of
  Investigation,  and  any  governmental  agency  or  entity authorized to
  receive  such  information  for  a  state,  national  and  international
  criminal   history  background  check,  as  may  be  designated  by  the
  superintendent; and
    (b) Personal history and experience in a form prescribed by the NMLSR,
  including the submission of authorization for the NMLSR to obtain:
    (i) an independent credit report  from  a  consumer  reporting  agency
  described in section 603(p) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act; and
    (ii)  information  related  to  any  administrative, civil or criminal
  findings by any governmental jurisdiction.
    (c) The current business name and principal address of the originating
  entity employing the applicant  or  with  which  the  applicant  has  an
  affiliation; and
    (d)  Such  other  pertinent  information  as  the  superintendent  may
  require.


::: 599-e:issuance_of_a_license.html
 
    &#167; 599-e. Issuance of a license. 1. Findings. Notwithstanding any other
  law,  the  superintendent  shall  not  issue a mortgage loan origination
  license unless he or she makes, at a minimum, the following findings:
    (a) No license revocation. That the applicant has never had a mortgage
  loan originator authorization, license or license equivalent revoked  in
  any  governmental jurisdiction, except that a subsequent formal vacation
  of such revocation shall not be deemed a revocation;
    (b) No felony conviction. That the applicant has  not  been  convicted
  of,  or  pled  guilty  or  nolo  contendere  to, a felony in a domestic,
  foreign, or military court:
    (i) During the seven-year period preceding the date of the application
  for licensing; or
    (ii) At any time preceding such date of application,  if  such  felony
  involved  an  act  of  fraud, dishonesty, or a breach of trust, or money
  laundering,  provided  that  for  purposes  of  this  subdivision,   the
  superintendent  may,  in  his  or her discretion, disregard a conviction
  where the felon has been pardoned;
    (c)  Character  and  fitness.  That  the  applicant  has  demonstrated
  financial  responsibility,  character,  and  general  fitness such as to
  command the confidence of the community and to warrant  a  determination
  that  the  MLO will operate honestly, fairly, and efficiently within the
  purposes of this article;
    (d) Pre-licensing education. That  the  applicant  has  completed  the
  pre-licensing  education  requirement  described in section five hundred
  ninety-nine-f of this article;
    (e) Written test. That the applicant has passed a  written  test  that
  meets   the   test   requirement   described  in  section  five  hundred
  ninety-nine-g of this article;
    (f)  Surety  bond.  That  the  applicant  has  met  the  surety   bond
  requirement  described  in  section  five  hundred ninety-nine-k of this
  article; and
    (g) Affiliation. Unless  the  superintendent  shall  have  waived  the
  affiliation   requirement   pursuant   to  regulations  adopted  by  the
  superintendent, that the applicant is employed by, or is an  independent
  contractor  of  (i)  an originating entity, (ii) solely in the case of a
  mortgage loan originator  engaged  in  the  origination  of  residential
  mortgage  loans  on manufactured homes, an entity licensed under article
  nine or eleven-B of this chapter, or (iii) in the  case  of  a  mortgage
  loan  originator  engaged  in  mortgage loan servicing and employed by a
  mortgage loan servicer, an entity registered as a mortgage loan servicer
  under article twelve-D of this chapter or exempt from registration under
  such article. A mortgage  loan  originator  may  not  be  simultaneously
  employed or affiliated with more than one originating entity.
    2.  Disqualifying associations. The superintendent may refuse to issue
  a license pursuant to this article if he or  she  shall  find  that  the
  applicant  (a)  has been a director, partner, or substantial stockholder
  of an originating entity which has had a registration or license revoked
  by the superintendent or a regulator of  another  state  that  regulates
  such  originating  entity, or (b) has been an employee, officer or agent
  of,  or  a  consultant  to,  an  originating  entity  that  has  had   a
  registration  or license revoked by the superintendent or a regulator of
  another state that regulates such originating entity where  such  person
  shall  have  been  found  by  the superintendent or by such regulator of
  another state to bear responsibility for  the  acts  resulting  in  such
  revocation.  For  the  purposes  of  this subdivision, a person shall be
  deemed to have been convicted of a crime if such person shall have  pled
  guilty  to  a charge thereof before a court or magistrate, or shall have
  been found guilty thereof by the decision or  judgment  of  a  court  or
  magistrate   or   by   the  verdict  of  a  jury,  irrespective  of  the
  pronouncement of sentence or the suspension thereof.
    3.  Issuance  of  a  license.  The  superintendent,  after  making the
  findings required by subdivision one of  this  section  shall  thereupon
  issue  a  license  to  the  applicant  as  mortgage loan originator. The
  superintendent shall transmit  one  copy  of  such  certificate  to  the
  applicant  and  file  another  in  his or her office, and shall transmit
  notice  of  approval  of  such  application,  in  such   form   as   the
  superintendent  deems  appropriate,  to the originating entity for which
  the applicant is providing services.  Such license shall  be  deemed  to
  terminate  at  the end of the annual license period, unless such license
  is renewed in accordance with section five hundred ninety-nine-i of this
  article.


::: 599-f:prelicensing_educational_requirements.html
 
    &#167;   599-f.   Pre-licensing   educational   requirements.   1.  Minimum
  educational requirements. In order to meet the  pre-licensing  education
  requirement  referred  to  in  this  article, a person shall complete at
  least twenty hours of education approved in accordance with  subdivision
  two  of this section, which shall include at least the following minimum
  requirements:
    (a) Three hours of federal law and regulations;
    (b) Three hours of ethics, which shall include instruction  on  fraud,
  consumer protection, and fair lending issues;
    (c)  Two  hours  of  training  related  to  lending  standards for the
  nontraditional mortgage product marketplace; and
    (d) Three hours of training on  applicable  New  York  State  law  and
  regulations as may be approved by the superintendent.
    2. Approved education courses. For purposes of subdivision one of this
  section,   pre-licensing   education  courses  shall  be  such  courses,
  including the course provider thereof, as shall have been reviewed,  and
  approved,  by  the  NMLSR  based  upon  reasonable standards. An hour of
  education for purposes of this article shall be as defined by the NMLSR.
    3. Employer and affiliate education courses. Nothing in  this  section
  shall  preclude  any  pre-licensing education course, as approved by the
  NMLSR, that is provided by the employer of the applicant  or  an  entity
  that  is  affiliated  with  the  applicant by an agency contract, or any
  subsidiary or affiliate of such employer or entity.
    4. Venue of education. Pre-licensing education may be  offered  either
  in a classroom, online or by any other means approved by the NMLSR.
    5.  Reciprocity  of education courses. Pre-licensing education courses
  approved by the NMLSR  pursuant  to  paragraphs  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of
  subdivision  one  of  this  section  for  any state shall be accepted as
  credit towards completion of  pre-licensing  education  requirements  in
  this state.
    6. Re-licensing educational requirements. An individual licensed under
  this  article  subsequent  to its effective date applying to be licensed
  again must prove that  he  or  she  has  completed  all  the  continuing
  education requirements for the year in which the license was last held.


::: 599-g:testing_of_mortgage_loan_originators.html
 
    &#167;   599-g.   Testing   of   mortgage   loan  originators.  1.  General
  requirements.  In order to meet the written test requirement referred to
  in this article, an  individual  shall  pass,  in  accordance  with  the
  standards  established  under  this  section,  a  qualified written test
  developed by the NMLSR and administered by a test provider  approved  by
  the NMLSR based upon reasonable standards.
    2.  Qualified test. A written test shall not be treated as a qualified
  written test for purposes of subdivision one of this section unless  the
  test  adequately measures the applicant's knowledge and comprehension in
  appropriate subject areas, including the following:
    (a) Ethics;
    (b) Federal law and regulation pertaining to mortgage origination;
    (c) State law and regulation pertaining to mortgage origination; and
    (d) Federal and state law and  regulation,  including  instruction  on
  fraud, consumer protection, the nontraditional mortgage marketplace, and
  fair lending issues.
    3.  Testing  location.  Nothing  in this section shall prohibit a test
  provider approved by the NMLSR from providing a test at the location  of
  the  employer  of  the  applicant  or  the location of any subsidiary or
  affiliate of such entity, or the location of any entity with  which  the
  applicant  holds  an  exclusive arrangement to conduct the business of a
  mortgage loan originator.
    4. Minimum competency. The following conditions apply  to  individuals
  taking such competency tests:
    (a)  An  individual shall not be considered to have passed a qualified
  written test unless the individual shall have achieved a test  score  of
  not less than seventy-five percent correct answers to questions;
    (b) An individual may retake a test three consecutive times, with each
  consecutive  taking  occurring  at least thirty days after the preceding
  test;
    (c) After failing three consecutive tests, an individual shall wait at
  least six months before taking the test again; and
    (d) A licensed mortgage loan originator who fails to maintain a  valid
  license  for  a  period of five years or longer, not taking into account
  any time during which such individual  is  a  registered  mortgage  loan
  originator, shall retake the test.


::: 599-h:mortgage_call_reports.html
 
    &#167;  599-h.  Mortgage call reports. Each originating entity shall submit
  to the NMLSR reports of condition, which shall be in such form and shall
  contain such information as the NMLSR may require.


::: 599-i:standards_for_license_renewal_inactive_status.html
 
    &#167;  599-i. Standards for license renewal; inactive status. 1. Standards
  for renewal. The following minimum standards  for  license  renewal  for
  mortgage loan originators are hereby established:
    (a)  The  mortgage  loan  originator must continue to meet the minimum
  standards for  license  issuance  set  forth  in  section  five  hundred
  ninety-nine-e of this article;
    (b)  The  mortgage  loan originator must satisfy the annual continuing
  education requirements described in section five  hundred  ninety-nine-j
  of this article; and
    (c)  The mortgage loan originator must have paid all required fees for
  the renewal of the license.
    2. Failure to satisfy  standards.  The  license  of  a  mortgage  loan
  originator  failing  to  satisfy the minimum standards for renewal shall
  terminate. In the event the licensed mortgage loan originator  fails  to
  pay  such  fee  or  otherwise  satisfy this section, then the department
  shall notify the originating entity of the termination of  the  license.
  Such  license  shall  be  reinstated, in the case of a licensed mortgage
  loan originator failing  to  timely  pay  such  fee,  if  such  licensed
  mortgage  loan  originator  pays  such fee within sixty days of such due
  date.
    3. Submission of annual request. An annual request for  renewal  of  a
  license  as a mortgage loan originator shall be affirmed by the mortgage
  loan originator and  submitted  electronically,  including  through  the
  NMLSR,  in  such  form  and  in  such manner as may be prescribed by the
  superintendent. The  annual  request  for  renewal  shall  contain  such
  information as specified by the superintendent.
    4.  Inactive  status. The license of a mortgage loan originator is not
  effective during any period during which the mortgage loan originator is
  not employed by, or is an  independent  contractor  of,  an  originating
  entity.  When a mortgage loan originator ceases to be employed by, or is
  an independent contractor of, an  originating  entity,  the  originating
  entity  shall promptly notify the superintendent of the termination date
  of such employment or affiliation. The license  of  such  mortgage  loan
  originator  shall  be placed in inactive status until the superintendent
  receives written or electronic notice of the mortgage loan  originator's
  new employment or affiliation. A mortgage loan originator shall continue
  to  pay  the  annual  license fee and to take required education courses
  while in inactive status.


::: 599-j:continuing_education_for_mortgage_loan_originators.html
 
    &#167;  599-j.  Continuing  education  for  mortgage  loan  originators. 1.
  Continuing  education  requirements.  In  order  to  meet   the   annual
  continuing  education  requirements  referred to in section five hundred
  ninety-nine-i of this article, a licensed mortgage loan originator shall
  complete, beginning in the year after such individual  is  licensed,  at
  least  eleven hours of education approved in accordance with subdivision
  two of this section, which shall include at least:
    (a) Three hours of Federal law and regulations;
    (b) Two hours of ethics, which shall  include  instruction  on  fraud,
  consumer protection, and fair lending issues;
    (c)  Two  hours  of  training  related  to  lending  standards for the
  nontraditional mortgage product marketplace; and
    (d) Three hours of training on  applicable  New  York  State  law  and
  regulations.
    2. Approved education courses. For purposes of subdivision one of this
  section,  continuing education courses shall be reviewed and approved by
  the NMLSR based upon reasonable standards.  Review  and  approval  of  a
  continuing  education  course  shall  include review and approval of the
  course provider.
    3. Employer and affiliate education courses. Nothing in  this  section
  shall  preclude  any  education  course  approved  by  the NMLSR that is
  provided by the employer of the mortgage loan originator  or  an  entity
  which  is  affiliated  with  the  mortgage  loan originator by an agency
  contract, or any subsidiary or affiliate of such employer or entity.
    4. Venue of education. Continuing education may be offered either in a
  classroom, online or by any other means approved by the NMLSR.
    5. Calculation of credits. A licensed mortgage loan originator:
    (a) Except for subdivision nine of this section,  may  receive  credit
  for a continuing education course only in the calendar year in which the
  course is taken; and
    (b)  May  not  take the same approved course in the same or successive
  years to meet the annual requirements for continuing education.
    6. Instructor credit. A licensed mortgage loan originator  who  is  an
  instructor of an approved continuing education course may receive credit
  for  the  licensed  mortgage  loan  originator's  own  annual continuing
  education requirement at the rate of two hours credit for every one hour
  taught.
    7. Reciprocity of education. A person  having  successfully  completed
  the  education requirements approved by the NMLSR pursuant to paragraphs
  (a), (b), and (c) of subdivision one of this section for any state shall
  be  accepted  as  credit  towards  completion  of  continuing  education
  requirements in this state.
    8.   Lapse  in  license.  A  licensed  mortgage  loan  originator  who
  subsequently becomes unlicensed must complete the  continuing  education
  requirements  for  the  last year in which the license was held prior to
  issuance of a new or renewed license.
    9.  Make  up  of  continuing  education.  An  individual  meeting  the
  requirements  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (c) of subdivision one of section
  five hundred ninety-nine-i of this article may make up any deficiency in
  continuing education  as  established  by  rule  or  regulation  of  the
  superintendent.


::: 599-k:required_surety_bond.html
 
    &#167;  599-k. Required surety bond. 1. Each mortgage loan originator shall
  be covered by a surety bond in accordance  with  this  section.  In  the
  event  that  the  mortgage  loan  originator is an employee or exclusive
  agent of an originating entity, the surety bond of such  person  may  be
  used  to satisfy the mortgage loan originator's surety bond requirement;
  provided that such surety bond contains coverage for each mortgage  loan
  originator  not  otherwise  covered  by  a  qualifying surety bond in an
  amount prescribed in subdivision two of this section.  The  surety  bond
  shall  be in a form prescribed by the superintendent. The superintendent
  may promulgate rules or regulations with respect to the requirements for
  such surety bonds as are necessary to accomplish the  purposes  of  this
  article.
    2. The penal amount of the required surety bond shall be maintained in
  an  amount  that  reflects  the dollar amount of loans originated by the
  mortgage loan originator as determined by the superintendent.
    3.  When  an  action  is  commenced  on   a   licensee's   bond,   the
  superintendent may require the filing of a new or supplemental bond.
    4.  Immediately upon recovery upon any claim or action on or under the
  bond, the mortgage loan originator (or the  originating  entity  as  the
  case  may  be), shall file a new or supplemental bond restoring the face
  amount of the bond to the amount required by the superintendent.


::: 599-l:reports_by_the_superintendent_permissive_challenges_by_licensees.html
 
    &#167;  599-l.  Reports  by  the  superintendent;  permissive challenges by
  licensees.  1.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provisions  of   law,   the
  superintendent  shall report on a regular basis, not more than annually,
  all violations of this article, as well as enforcement actions and other
  relevant information, to the NMLSR subject to the  provisions  contained
  in  the confidentiality provisions of section five hundred ninety-nine-q
  of this article.
    2. The superintendent shall establish a  process  whereby  a  mortgage
  loan  originator may challenge information entered into the NMLSR by the
  superintendent.


::: 599-m:required_records_and_reporting.html
 
    &#167;  599-m. Required records and reporting. 1. Educational records. Each
  originating entity shall obtain and retain acceptable  documentation  of
  the  satisfactory  completion  of education courses required pursuant to
  this article by each mortgage loan originator employed by or  affiliated
  with such originating entity and shall provide such documentation at the
  request  of  the superintendent. Such documentation shall be retained by
  an originating entity for six years. An originating entity shall  retain
  a  copy  of  any  original  proof  or record of completion provided by a
  mortgage loan originator. In those instances when an originating  entity
  also retains the original proof or record of such completion of any then
  applicable  education requirement, such originating entity shall provide
  the original proof  or  record,  upon  request,  when  a  mortgage  loan
  originator  terminates  or  has  terminated  his  or  her  employment or
  affiliation with the originating entity.
    2. List of licensed  mortgage  loan  originators.  The  superintendent
  shall  maintain  upon  the internet web-page of the department a list of
  the mortgage loan originators licensed and in good standing.  Such  list
  shall  indicate the name, license number and current originating entity,
  if any, employing each  mortgage  loan  originator  or  with  whom  such
  mortgage loan originator is affiliated.
    3. Reports by originating entities. Each originating entity shall on a
  quarterly  basis  in  each  calendar year provide the superintendent, in
  written or electronic form, with a list of the mortgage loan originators
  employed by, or affiliated with, such originating entity and shall  also
  advise  in  such  report  of  any dismissal for cause of a mortgage loan
  originator employed by, or  affiliated  with,  such  originating  entity
  during  such quarter, which is due or based upon an alleged violation of
  this chapter or any law involving real property.
    4. Reports by mortgage loan originators. Each mortgage loan originator
  shall promptly notify the superintendent of the following:
    (a) A change in his or her primary residence address;
    (b) Any felony conviction or pending felony charges; any charge of  or
  conviction with respect to a misdemeanor involving financial services or
  a  financial  services  related  business;  or  any charge or conviction
  involving fraud, false statements or omissions, theft or wrongful taking
  of property,  bribery,  perjury,  forgery  or  extortion  subsequent  to
  initial authorization;
    (c)  Any  termination of or resignation from employment of affiliation
  with an originating entity;
    (d) Any initiation, settlement or resolution of any complaint,  action
  or  proceeding  brought  against  him  or  her  by  a  state  or federal
  governmental unit or self-regulatory organization in connection  with  a
  financial  services-related  activity  or  business  or involving fraud,
  misrepresentation, consumer deception, larceny or perjury;
    (e) Any initiation, settlement or resolution of any other civil action
  or proceeding against him or  her  involving  fraud,  misrepresentation,
  larceny or perjury; and
    (f) Any other matters as directed by the superintendent.


::: 599-n:enforcement_authority_grounds_for_suspension_or_revocation_of_a_mortgage_loan_originator_license_restitution.html
 
    &#167;  599-n.  Enforcement authority; grounds for suspension or revocation
  of  a  mortgage  loan  originator  license;  restitution.  1.   Licensee
  revocation.  In addition to the authority set forth in subdivision three
  of  this  section,  the superintendent may revoke a license to engage in
  business as a mortgage loan originator pursuant to this article if he or
  she finds, after notice and a hearing, that:
    (a) Through a  course  of  conduct,  the  licensee  has  violated  any
  provisions of this article, or any rule or regulation promulgated by the
  superintendent  thereunder, or any rule or regulation promulgated by the
  superintendent under article twelve-D of this chapter or  of  any  other
  applicable  law,  rule  or  regulation  of  this  state  or  the federal
  government  pertaining  to   mortgage   banking,   brokering   or   loan
  originating; or
    (b)  Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
  of the original application for such license, would have  warranted  the
  superintendent to refuse to issue such initial license.
    2.   Restitution.   The  superintendent  may  order  a  mortgage  loan
  originator or any other person to pay restitution for violations of this
  article or any rules of the superintendent promulgated hereunder.
    3. Suspension; termination.  (a)  The  superintendent  may,  for  good
  cause,  or  where  there  is  a substantial risk of public harm, without
  notice or a hearing, issue  an  order  suspending  the  license  of  any
  mortgage  loan  originator  for  a  period not to exceed ninety days for
  investigation.  "Good cause", as used in this subdivision,  shall  exist
  only  when  the  mortgage  loan  originator  has  engaged  or engages in
  dishonest  or  inequitable  practices  or  practices  which  demonstrate
  incompetent   mortgage  loan  originating,  which  practices  may  cause
  substantial harm to the  persons  afforded  the  protection  of  article
  twelve-D of this chapter, or the license of the mortgage loan originator
  was revoked in another state or jurisdiction participating in the NMLSR.
    (b)  The  superintendent  may,  without  notice or a hearing, issue an
  order suspending any  license:  (i)  thirty  days  after  the  date  the
  mortgage  loan  originator fails to file any report required to be filed
  with the superintendent pursuant  to  the  authority  provided  by  this
  article;  or  (ii) immediately upon notice that any required surety bond
  with respect to the licensee is no longer in effect.
    (c) If the superintendent has issued an  order  suspending  a  license
  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  subdivision, such license may be
  reinstated  if  the  superintendent  determines,  in  his  or  her  sole
  discretion  after  investigation, that good cause therefor did not exist
  or  no  longer  exists.  If  the  superintendent  has  issued  an  order
  suspending a license pursuant to paragraph (b) of this subdivision, such
  license  may  be reinstated, if the superintendent determines, in his or
  her sole discretion, that the licensee has cured  all  deficiencies  set
  forth  in such order by the close of business ninety days after the date
  of such suspension order. Otherwise, in case of a suspension pursuant to
  paragraph (b) of this subdivision, unless the superintendent has, in his
  or her sole discretion, extended such suspension, the  license  of  such
  mortgage  loan originator shall be deemed to be automatically terminated
  by operation of law at the close of business on such ninetieth day.
    4. Requirement for a hearing. Except as provided in subdivision  three
  of  this  section, no license shall be revoked or suspended except after
  notice and a hearing thereon.  Any  order  of  suspension  issued  after
  notice  and  a  hearing may include as a condition of reinstatement that
  restitution be made to consumers of fees or  other  charges  which  have
  been   improperly   charged   or   collected   as   determined   by  the
  superintendent.
    5. Surrender of license. With the prior consent of the superintendent,
  any mortgage loan originator may surrender any license by delivering  to
  the superintendent written notice that he or she thereby surrenders such
  license,  but  such  surrender  shall  not  affect  such  mortgage  loan
  originator's  civil  or  criminal  liability for acts committed prior to
  such surrender or its obligations to the superintendent for assessments,
  fees or administrative actions with respect to the periods  before  such
  surrender.
    6.  Continuation of liability. A suspension, revocation or termination
  of a license in accordance with  this  article  shall  not  affect  such
  mortgage   loan  originator's  civil  or  criminal  liability  for  acts
  committed prior to such suspension, revocation  or  termination  or  its
  obligations   to   the   superintendent   for   assessments,   fees   or
  administrative  actions  with  respect  to  the  periods   before   such
  suspension, revocation or termination.
    7.  Continuation of contracts. No revocation, suspension, surrender or
  termination of any license under this article shall impair or affect the
  obligation of any preexisting lawful contract between any licensee under
  article twelve-D of this chapter and any person.
    8. Continuation of license. Every  license  issued  pursuant  to  this
  article  shall remain in force and effect until the same shall have been
  surrendered, revoked, terminated or suspended  in  accordance  with  any
  provision  of  this article, but the superintendent shall have authority
  in his or her sole discretion to reinstate a  suspended  license  or  to
  issue  a  new  license to a mortgage loan originator whose license shall
  have been revoked or terminated if no  fact  or  condition  then  exists
  which  would  have  warranted the superintendent to refuse to issue such
  initial authorization under this article.
    9.  Notice  of  revocation  or  suspension;   review.   Whenever   the
  superintendent shall revoke or suspend a license issued pursuant to this
  article,  he or she shall forthwith execute multiple copies of a written
  order to that effect. The superintendent shall file  one  copy  of  such
  order  in  the office of the department and shall forthwith serve a copy
  upon the mortgage loan originator and any affected  originating  entity.
  Any  such  order  may  be  reviewed  in  the  manner provided by article
  seventy-eight of the civil practice law and rules. Such application  for
  review  as  authorized  by  this section must be made within thirty days
  from the date of such order of suspension or revocation.
    10. Notice of termination. Whenever a license shall have terminated in
  accordance with  this  article,  the  superintendent  shall  notify  the
  mortgage  loan  originator  and any affected originating entity that the
  license has terminated and that the mortgage  loan  originator  may  not
  engage in the business of soliciting, processing, placing or negotiating
  a  mortgage  loan  or offering to solicit, process, place or negotiate a
  mortgage loan in this state.
    11. Hearing requirements. Any hearing held pursuant to the  provisions
  of  this  section  shall  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of the state
  administrative procedure act.


::: 599-o:rules_regulations_and_examinations.html
 
    &#167; 599-o. Rules, regulations and examinations. 1. The superintendent is
  hereby  authorized  and empowered to make such rules and regulations and
  interim procedures for licensing and acceptance of applications  as  may
  in  his  or  her  judgment be necessary or appropriate for the effective
  administration  or  enforcement  of  this   article.   For   individuals
  previously  authorized  to  act  as mortgage loan originators under this
  chapter, the superintendent may establish expedited review and licensing
  procedures.
    2. For the purpose  of  discovering  violations  of  this  article  or
  securing  information  lawfully  required  by  him or her hereunder, the
  superintendent may at any time, and as often as he or she may determine,
  investigate the business and examine the books, accounts,  records,  and
  files  of  every  licensee  under this article and any entity with which
  such individual is associated as an employee or independent  contractor.
  For  that  purpose  the  superintendent  shall  have  free access to the
  offices and places of business, books, accounts, papers, records, files,
  safes and vaults of all such entities.  The  superintendent  shall  have
  authority  to  require  the  attendance of and to examine under oath all
  persons whose testimony he  or  she  may  deem  necessary  or  desirable
  relative   to  such  business.  The  expenses  incurred  in  making  any
  examination pursuant to this section shall be assessed against and  paid
  by  the  licensee  so  examined,  except  that traveling and subsistence
  expenses so incurred shall be charged against and paid by  licensees  in
  such  proportions  as the superintendent shall deem just and reasonable,
  and such proportionate charges shall be added to the assessment  of  the
  other  expenses  incurred  upon each examination. Upon written notice by
  the superintendent of the total amount of such assessment, the  licensee
  shall   become   liable  for  and  shall  pay  such  assessment  to  the
  superintendent.


::: 599-p:unique_identifier.html
 
    &#167;  599-p.  Unique  identifier.  The  unique  identifier  of any person
  originating a residential mortgage loan shall be clearly  shown  on  all
  residential   mortgage   loan   application   forms,   solicitations  or
  advertisements, including business cards  or  websites,  and  any  other
  documents   as   established   by  rule,  regulation  or  order  of  the
  superintendent.


::: 599-q:confidentiality.html
 
    &#167;   599-q.   Confidentiality.  In  order  to  promote  more  effective
  regulation and reduce regulatory burden through supervisory  information
  sharing,  information  provided to the superintendent by an MLO shall be
  subject to the following:
    1. Except as otherwise provided in public law 110-289,  section  1512,
  the  requirements  under any federal law, the freedom of information law
  ("FOIL")  or  other  law  of  this  state  regarding  the   privacy   or
  confidentiality  of  any  information or material provided to the NMLSR,
  and any privilege arising under federal  or  state  law  (including  the
  rules of any federal or state court) with respect to such information or
  material,  shall continue to apply to such information or material after
  the information or material  has  been  disclosed  to  the  NMLSR.  Such
  information  and  material  may  be  shared  with  all state and federal
  regulatory officials with mortgage industry oversight authority  without
  the  loss  of  privilege  of  the  loss  of  confidentiality protections
  provided by federal law, FOIL or this chapter.
    2. For these purposes, the superintendent is authorized to enter  into
  agreements or sharing arrangements with other governmental agencies, the
  Conference  of  State  Bank  Supervisors,  the  American  Association of
  Residential  Mortgage  Regulators  or  other  associations  representing
  governmental agencies as established by rule, regulation or order of the
  superintendent.


::: 599-r:construction.html
 
    &#167;  599-r.  Construction.  Nothing  contained  in this article shall be
  deemed to impair, alter or render ineffective any provision  of  article
  twelve-D  of  this  chapter,  including but not limited to any provision
  thereof relating to issuing, suspending or revoking any mortgage  banker
  license or mortgage broker registration.


::: 599:separability_of_provisions.html
 
    &#167; 599.  Separability  of provisions. If any provision of this article,
  or the application of such  provision  to  any  person,  co-partnership,
  association,  corporation  or  circumstance,  shall be held invalid, the
  remainder of the article, and  the  application  of  such  provision  to
  persons,  co-partnerships,  associations,  corporations or circumstances
  other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not  be  affected
  thereby.


::: 5:loans_pursuant_to_the_servicemens_readjustment_act_of_1944.html
 
    &#167; 5. Loans pursuant to the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944." 1.
  Subject  to  such  regulations and restrictions as the superintendent of
  financial services finds to be necessary and proper,  (i)  any  loan  at
  least  twenty  per centum of which is guaranteed under title three of an
  act of congress entitled the "Servicemen's Readjustment  Act  of  1944,"
  may  be made or invested in by any banking organization having the power
  to make loans, and the savings and loan bank of the state of  New  York,
  and  (ii)  any  bank  or  trust  company  may  make any loan made on the
  security of a loan or loans eligible under  the  preceding  subparagraph
  (i), without regard to the limitations and restrictions of this chapter;
  provided however, that
    (a)  No  such  loan  upon the security of real estate shall be made or
  invested in if the amount of such loan exceeds the  appraised  value  of
  such  real  estate,  as improved or to be improved by the application of
  the proceeds of such loan, or if the amount of such loan, when added  to
  the amount unpaid upon prior mortgages, liens and encumbrances upon such
  real estate, exceeds such appraised value. Such appraised value shall be
  determined by an appraiser appointed pursuant to policies established by
  the  board  of  directors  or  trustees  of  the  corporation  making or
  investing in such loan, or, in the case of a private  banker,  shall  be
  determined  by  the private banker or by an appraiser appointed pursuant
  to policies established by such private banker;
    (b) Each such loan, if secured by real property, shall be  subject  to
  the  provisions  of  this chapter relating to the recording of mortgages
  and assignments of mortgages upon real property;
    (bb) The requirements of the foregoing paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  shall
  not apply when not less than ten such mortgages are assigned as security
  for  a  loan  made under paragraph (ii), providing the term of such loan
  does not exceed twelve months;
    (c) Each such loan shall be subject to the provisions of this  chapter
  prescribing the maximum limits, in amount, of (1) loans in the aggregate
  to,  or  upon  the net liability of, any one individual and (2) loans in
  the aggregate secured by real property;
    (d) Each such loan made or invested in by a savings  bank,  a  savings
  and  loan  association, or the savings and loan bank of the state of New
  York shall be subject to the following additional provisions: (1) a loan
  pursuant to section five hundred one, five hundred two or  five  hundred
  three of the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944," for the purpose of
  repairing,  altering  or  improving  a building or buildings, and a loan
  pursuant to section five hundred five (a)  of  such  act,  need  not  be
  secured by a lien on real property, but all other loans pursuant to such
  act  must  be  secured  by a first lien on such property; and (2) in the
  case of each loan for the acquisition or benefit of, or secured by, real
  property, such real property must, if located without the state  of  New
  York,  be  located,  in  the  case of a savings bank, within twenty-five
  miles of the principal office of such savings bank; in  the  case  of  a
  savings and loan association, within fifty miles of the principal office
  of  such  association;  and, in the case of the savings and loan bank of
  the state of New York, within fifty miles of  the  principal  office  of
  such  bank or the principal office of one of its member savings and loan
  associations; except that, if the amount  of  a  loan  secured  by  real
  property,   after  deducting  therefrom  the  amount  thereof  which  is
  guaranteed pursuant to such act, is  in  excess  of  two-thirds  of  the
  appraised  value of such real property, as determined in accordance with
  paragraph (a) of this subdivision, such real property  must  be  located
  within  the  state  of  New York and, in the case of a savings bank or a
  savings and loan association, within one hundred miles of the  principal
  office  of  any  such  corporation which makes, and any such corporation
  which invests in, such loan; and except that, in  the  case  of  a  loan
  pursuant to section five hundred five (a) of such act, the real property
  for the acquisition or benefit of which such loan is made may be located
  within  the  applicable  and prescribed limits of this chapter as to the
  location of real property securing a loan insured by the federal housing
  commissioner.
    (e) The authority provided in this subdivision to invest in  any  loan
  secured  by  real  property guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of the
  act of congress entitled the "Servicemen's Readjustment  Act  of  1944",
  shall  include authority to acquire title to real property in connection
  with investing in an installment contract for the sale of real property,
  so guaranteed, where the purchaser under such contract is in  possession
  and  control  of  the  property,  and  title  is acquired by the banking
  organization solely as security for the obligations of the purchaser.
    2. In complying with the provisions of this  chapter  which  prescribe
  the maximum limits, in amount, of loans in the aggregate to, or upon the
  net liability of, any one individual, and loans in the aggregate secured
  by real property, a banking organization or the savings and loan bank of
  the state of New York may deduct from the total amount of each loan made
  or  invested  in  by  it  that  portion of such loan which is guaranteed
  pursuant to the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of  1944",  and,  in  the
  case  of  each loan made or invested in by it which is secured by a loan
  which is guaranteed pursuant to said act, may deduct that portion  which
  is equal to the portion of such security which is so guaranteed.
    3.  The  foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to loans
  insured pursuant to section five  hundred  eight  of  the  "Servicemen's
  Readjustment  Act of 1944," but the superintendent of financial services
  shall have power to authorize banking organizations and the savings  and
  loan bank of the state of New York to make and invest in such loans upon
  such  terms  and  conditions as it shall prescribe. Nothing contained in
  this section shall prevent loans guaranteed or insured pursuant  to  the
  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act of 1944" from being made or invested in
  under, and  subject  to  the  limitations  and  restrictions  of,  other
  provisions of this chapter.


::: 6-a:investment_in_obligations_of_certain_persons_sixtyfive_years_of_age_or_over_incurred_to_satisfy_real_property_tax_indebtedness.html
 
    &#167; 6-a.  Investment  in obligations of certain persons sixty-five years
  of age or over incurred to satisfy real property  tax  indebtedness.  1.
  Subject  to  such  regulations and restrictions as the superintendent of
  financial services finds to be necessary and proper and  notwithstanding
  any  inconsistent  provision  of this chapter to the contrary, any bank,
  trust company, savings bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  or  life
  insurance company authorized to do business in this state may make loans
  described in subdivision two of this section.
    2.  Banking  institutions  described in subdivision one may make loans
  under this section to natural persons aged sixty-five or  older  subject
  to the following conditions:
    (a)  the  principal  amount of the loan shall not exceed the aggregate
  amount of all real  property  taxes,  special  ad  valorem  levies,  and
  special  assessments  paid  or  owing by the borrower for the current or
  prior years or both with respect to real property owned individually  or
  jointly  by  such  borrower which constitutes the principal residence of
  such borrower; provided, however, that the loan  agreement  may  provide
  for  such  principal  amount  to  be  modified  to include the amount of
  additional real property taxes, special ad valorem levies,  and  special
  assessments pertaining to such property as they are incurred; and
    (b)  such  loan  shall be secured by a first or second mortgage on the
  property which mortgage expressly states in like or similar terms  "this
  mortgage  is  given  to secure a loan made pursuant to the provisions of
  section six-a of the banking law"; and
    (c) the annual interest chargeable on such loan shall not  exceed  the
  allowable  interest  chargeable  by such lender to any other person, not
  including a corporation, on an obligation secured by  a  first  mortgage
  lien; and
    (d)  a  loan which is undertaken pursuant to this section shall not be
  payable until the sale or other disposition of such  property,  provided
  however  that  any  borrower  may  discharge  any  indebtedness  he  has
  undertaken pursuant to the  provisions  of  this  section  at  any  time
  without payment of any charges other than principal and interest.
    3. Subject to regulations of the superintendent of financial services,
  banking  institutions described in subdivision one of this section which
  make loans pursuant to this section may, pursuant to the loan agreement,
  utilize part or all of the proceeds of such loan to make direct  payment
  of   real  property  taxes,  special  ad  valorem  levies,  and  special
  assessments  on  the  property  which  secures  such  loan.   Any   such
  institution  which  retains part or all of the proceeds of such loan for
  the purpose of making  direct  payment  of  such  real  property  taxes,
  special  ad  valorem  levies, and special assessments shall be liable to
  such borrower, upon failure to pay such taxes, levies,  and  assessments
  for the amount of such taxes, levies, and assessments plus penalties and
  interest imposed thereon.
    4.  Every  banking  institution  which  makes  direct  payment of real
  property taxes, special  ad  valorem  levies,  and  special  assessments
  pursuant  to  subdivision  three  shall at least annually provide to the
  borrower any paid bill it has received for the payment  of  such  taxes,
  levies,  and  assessments.  Such bill shall be contained in a succeeding
  loan statement as may be sent to such borrower. This section  shall  not
  apply  to  billings  for real property taxes, special ad valorem levies,
  and special assessments transmitted by computer tape by a  city  with  a
  population of one million or more persons.


::: 6-c:application_forms_to_be_made_available_certain_cases.html
 
    &#167; 6-c.  Application  forms  to  be  made  available; certain cases. 1.
  Every banking  organization  which  originates  loans  secured  by  real
  property  located  in this state shall provide at its principal place of
  business and at all  its  branches  except  automated  teller  machines,
  point-of-sale  terminals  or other similar facilities, application forms
  for such loans which forms shall be made available upon request.
    2. Every such organization shall be required, in such  manner  as  the
  superintendent shall determine, to maintain a record of such application
  forms  returned  substantially  completed and the last activity had with
  respect thereto.
    3. Every such organization shall  inform  any  person  making  inquiry
  regarding  the  origination of loans secured by real property located in
  this state that written loan application  forms  are  available  at  its
  principal  place  of  business  and at all its branches except automated
  teller machines, point-of-sale terminals or other similar facilities.
    4. For purposes of this section "a  loan  secured  by  real  property"
  shall  include  any  loan  secured by a mortgage or other lien upon real
  property including a leasehold estate and any cooperative apartment loan
  subject to the provisions of subdivision five  of  section  one  hundred
  three,  subdivision  eight-a  of  section  two  hundred  thirty-five  or
  subdivision two-a of section three hundred eighty of this chapter.


::: 6-d:requirement_to_state_in_writing_reason_for_denial_of_mortgage_loan.html
 
    &#167; 6-d.  Requirement  to state in writing reason for denial of mortgage
  loan.  Every banking organization and  licensed  mortgage  banker  which
  originates  mortgage  loans  secured by real property located within New
  York state which denies an application for such  a  loan  or  makes  its
  approval  of  such  a loan conditional upon the applicant's agreement to
  terms substantially different than those included in or contemplated  by
  the  submitted  application shall be required to notify, in writing, any
  person or agent who returns a substantially completed  written  mortgage
  loan  application  form  of  the  reasons  for the denial or conditioned
  approval.


::: 6-e:graduated_payment_mortgages_authorized.html
 
    &#167; 6-e.  Graduated  payment  mortgages  authorized. Notwithstanding any
  inconsistent provision of this chapter or other law and in  addition  to
  any  other power exercisable by it, every banking organization, licensed
  mortgage banker, national banking  association,  federal  savings  bank,
  federal savings and loan association and federal credit union shall have
  the  power  to offer graduated payment mortgages and loans which conform
  to the provisions of  section  two  hundred  seventy-nine  of  the  real
  property  law,  subject  to  the rules and regulations prescribed by the
  superintendent of financial services.


::: 6-f:alternative_mortgage_instruments_made_by_banks_trust_companies_savings_banks_savings_and_loan_associations_and_credit_unions.html
 
    &#167; 6-f.   Alternative   mortgage   instruments  made  by  banks,  trust
  companies, savings banks,  savings  and  loan  associations  and  credit
  unions.  1.   Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this chapter
  or any other law of this state, the superintendent of financial services
  is authorized to adopt such rules or regulations as shall permit  banks,
  trust  companies,  foreign  banking  corporations licensed to maintain a
  branch or  agency  in  this  state,  savings  banks,  savings  and  loan
  associations,  credit  unions  and  persons and entities engaging in the
  business described in section five hundred ninety  of  this  chapter  to
  make  residential  mortgage  loans  and cooperative apartment unit loans
  which provide for (a) periodic readjustments of  the  rate  of  interest
  charged  for  the  loan  or successive terms of the loan or (b) terms of
  loan which are shorter than the term of the mortgage or (c) repayment of
  the principal amount of the loan by regular payments which are not equal
  in amount throughout the term of the mortgage or (d) the lender  thereof
  to receive a share in the future appreciation of the property serving as
  security for the loan under the circumstances set forth in the following
  sentence  or  (e) any combination of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
  this subdivision, subject to the provisions of subdivision two  of  this
  section.  Where  the  lender or holder of a residential mortgage loan or
  cooperative apartment unit loan enters into a written agreement with the
  borrower under which the  lender  or  holder  conditionally  reduces  an
  amount  of  principal of such loan in order to assist a borrower at risk
  of foreclosure to avoid such foreclosure, the lender or holder may enter
  into a written agreement (a "shared appreciation  agreement")  with  the
  borrower  under  which  the  lender  shall  be  entitled to share in the
  appreciation of the market value of the  real  property  or  cooperative
  shares  and  proprietary  lease securing such loan between the effective
  date of such reduction in principal  amount  until  the  date  when  the
  property  is  sold,  provided  that the amount the lender is entitled to
  receive under such shared appreciation agreement shall be the lesser  of
  (i)  the  amount  of  such reduction in principal, plus interest on such
  amount from the date of such reduction to the date  of  payment  at  the
  same  rate  of  interest as applies to the remaining principal amount of
  the residential mortgage loan, and (ii) fifty percent of the  amount  of
  such  appreciation.  Such  amounts  shall  be payable when the mortgagor
  sells  the  residential  real  property  or   cooperative   shares   and
  proprietary  lease  that  secure  the  loan.  Such  shared  appreciation
  agreement shall expressly and conspicuously bear a legend at the top  of
  the  agreement  in  at least fourteen-point type which shall include the
  following: "In this agreement, you are giving away some  of  any  future
  increase  in value of your home. Please read carefully." For purposes of
  this subdivision, the appreciation of the property shall be measured  as
  the  difference,  if  positive, between the gross sales proceeds (net of
  any reasonable real estate commission) of the sale of the  property  and
  the  value  of  the  property  at  the time of the closing of the shared
  appreciation mortgage, as determined by an appraisal by  an  independent
  New  York  state  licensed  real  estate  appraiser.  Recovery  of  such
  reduction in the principal amount shall not be deemed to be interest for
  any purpose of the laws of this state.
    Any shared appreciation agreement shall be accompanied  by  a  notice,
  which shall be on a separate page from the shared appreciation agreement
  and  shall  contain  the following heading in bold, fourteen-point type:
  "Important disclosures about the contract in which  you  agree  to  give
  away  a  part  of any future increase in value of your home. Please read
  carefully." The notice shall include the following disclosures:
    (1) a statement that the lender will  be  entitled  to  share  in  any
  appreciation  of  the market value of the mortgaged property that occurs
  between the time of the loan modification and the time the  property  is
  sold,  up  to  the  amount  of  principal forborne plus interest on such
  amount at the applicable rate of interest on  the  mortgage  but  in  no
  event  more  than  fifty percent of the amount of such appreciation, and
  providing at least three examples of how such  shared  appreciation  may
  affect  the  borrower  at  the  time  the  borrower  sells the mortgaged
  property, such examples to include (A) no appreciation in the  value  of
  the  mortgaged  property,  (B)  appreciation  of  twenty percent and (C)
  appreciation of fifty percent;
    (2) a statement advising the borrower to seek  independent  counseling
  from  a  lawyer,  a  HUD-certified  mortgage  counselor or a tax advisor
  regarding (A) the trade-off between a current reduction in the  size  of
  the  mortgage,  versus  the  promise  to  give  up  part  of  the future
  appreciation of the home, and (B) the tax consequences of the  principal
  forgiveness  and  shared appreciation agreement, and providing a list of
  the  names  and  contact  information  of  five  HUD-certified  mortgage
  counselors  in the county where the mortgaged property is located or, if
  there are fewer than five such counselors in that county, the  list  may
  include counselors in one or more neighboring counties;
    (3)  a  statement  on  the potential effect of the shared appreciation
  agreement on any future refinancing of the mortgage  and  the  potential
  effect  of  any  prepayment  or  refinancing  of  the  mortgage  on  the
  appreciation sharing agreement; and
    (4) such other disclosures as the superintendent of financial services
  may require.
    2. Any rules or regulations which are adopted by the superintendent of
  financial services pursuant to subdivision one of this section:
    (a) shall provide for disclosures and notices  to  the  borrower  with
  respect  to  the  terms and conditions of the loan and the mortgage, and
  the superintendent of financial services may  require  the  adoption  of
  uniform disclosure and notice forms for this purpose;
    (b) shall provide for the conditions governing renewals of the term of
  the loan;
    (c)  shall  not  permit any uninsured loan secured by residential real
  property to be made  in  an  amount  exceeding  ninety  percent  of  the
  appraised value of the property; and
    (d) shall not allow, with respect to any specific alternative mortgage
  instrument  which permits a periodic readjustment of the rate charged on
  the loan, for a greater change in rate than that permitted under federal
  law or regulations to federally-chartered banking organizations  located
  in  this  state  for  loans  made  pursuant to an equivalent alternative
  mortgage instrument.


::: 6-g:override_of_certain_provisions_of_united_states_public_law_97320.html
 
    &#167; 6-g.  Override  of  certain  provisions  of United States Public Law
  97-320. 1. The provisions of Title VIII of an act of  congress  entitled
  "Garn-St  Germain  Depository  Institutions  Act of 1982", United States
  Public Law 97-320, and the preemption of state law provided  in  section
  804  thereof,  shall not apply with respect to residential real property
  and cooperative apartment unit alternative mortgage transactions subject
  to the laws of this state except as provided in this section.
    2. With respect  to  a  real  property  loan  secured  by  a  lien  on
  residential  real  property  containing  less  than five dwelling units,
  including a lien on  the  stock  allocated  to  a  dwelling  unit  in  a
  cooperative housing corporation or on a residential manufactured home, a
  lender  may  not  exercise its option pursuant to a "due-on-sale" clause
  upon:
    (a) A transfer by devise, descent, or operation of law on the death of
  a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety;
    (b) The granting of a leasehold interest of three years  or  less  not
  containing an option to purchase;
    (c) A transfer to a relative resulting from the death of a borrower;
    (d)  A transfer where the spouse or children of the borrower become an
  owner of the property;
    (e) A transfer resulting from a decree of a dissolution  of  marriage,
  legal  separation  agreement,  or from an incidental property settlement
  agreement, by which the spouse of the borrower becomes an owner  of  the
  property; or
    (f)  A transfer into an inter-vivos trust in which the borrower is and
  remains a beneficiary and that does not relate to a transfer  of  rights
  of occupancy in the property.


::: 6-h:reverse_mortgage_loans_authorized.html
 
    &#167; 6-h.   Reverse   mortgage   loans  authorized.  Notwithstanding  any
  inconsistent provision of law, in addition to any other power  exercised
  by it, every authorized lender, as defined by section two hundred eighty
  or  two  hundred eighty-a of the real property law, shall have the power
  to offer reverse mortgage loans (1) which conform to the  provisions  of
  section  two hundred eighty or two hundred eighty-a of the real property
  law and the rules and regulations promulgated by the  superintendent  of
  financial  services;  or  (2)  which  conform to the requirements of the
  federal  housing  administration's  home  equity   conversion   mortgage
  insurance  demonstration  program  for as long as such program exists as
  provided for in section 1715Z-20 of title 12 of the United States  Code.
  "Reverse  mortgage"  shall  mean  the  mortgage,  deed of trust or other
  security instrument relating  to  a  particular  reverse  mortgage  loan
  transaction.
    The  proceeds  of a reverse mortgage shall not be considered as income
  for the purposes  of  section  four  hundred  sixty-seven  of  the  real
  property tax law; provided, however, that monies used to repay a reverse
  mortgage may not be deducted from income, and provided additionally that
  any  interest  or  dividends  realized  from  the  investment of reverse
  mortgage proceeds shall be considered income.


::: 6-i:mortgage_loans.html
 
    &#167; 6-i.  Mortgage  loans.  No person, partnership, corporation, banking
  organization, exempt organization as defined  in  section  five  hundred
  ninety  of  this  chapter  or other entity shall make a mortgage loan as
  defined in section  five  hundred  ninety  of  this  chapter  except  in
  conformity  with  the requirements of article twelve-D and in compliance
  with  such  rules  and  regulations  as  may  be  promulgated   by   the
  superintendent of financial services or prescribed by the superintendent
  under  this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
  or otherwise modify any otherwise applicable  requirement  of  state  or
  federal law.


::: 6-j:proof_of_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 6-j.  Proof  of  insurance. 1. No exempt organization, as defined in
  section five hundred ninety of this chapter, or licensed mortgage banker
  which originates mortgage loans shall, at the time of title closing  for
  a loan secured by a one to four family residential real property, refuse
  to  accept  a  binder,  issued  by  an  insurer,  or  a  duly authorized
  representative of an insurer, licensed to do business in this state,  as
  evidence  that  hazard  insurance  has  been  procured for the mortgaged
  premises. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the mortgage banker  or
  exempt  organization  from  requiring  the  borrower  to  also furnish a
  receipt indicating that  the  annual  or  installment  premium  on  such
  insurance policy has been paid.
    2.  As  used  in  this  section, "binder" means a written document (a)
  which includes the name and address of the insured  and  any  additional
  named  insureds,  mortgagees,  or  lienholders;  a  description  of  the
  property insured; a description of the nature  and  amount  of  coverage
  which  shall  be  deemed  to  include  the  terms  of  the standard fire
  insurance policy except  as  conspicuously  noted  on  the  binder;  the
  identity  of  the insurer and of the authorized representative executing
  the binder; the effective date of coverage; the  binder  number  or  the
  policy  number  where  applicable  to  a policy extension, and (b) which
  temporarily obligates the insurer to  provide  that  insurance  coverage
  pending  issuance  of  the  insurance policy. The cancellation of such a
  binder shall be governed  at  the  minimum  by  the  provisions  of  the
  standard  fire  insurance policy and the provisions of the insurance law
  applicable thereto.


::: 6-k:real_property_insurance_escrow_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 6-k.  Real  property insurance escrow accounts. 1. Definitions. When
  used in this section: (a) "Mortgage  investing  institution"  means  any
  bank,  trust  company,  national  bank,  savings  bank, savings and loan
  association, federal savings bank, federal savings and loan association,
  private banker, credit union, federal credit union, investment  company,
  pension  fund,  licensed  mortgage  banker  or  any  other  entity which
  maintains a real property insurance escrow  account  for  real  property
  located in this state.
    (b)  "Mortgagor" means a person having title to and occupying a one to
  four family residence which is located in this state and is subject to a
  mortgage.
    (c) "Real property insurance" means a policy of insurance  issued,  or
  issued for delivery in this state, on a risk located or resident in this
  state  insuring the following contingency: loss or damage (including but
  not limited to loss or damage on account of fire) to real property  used
  predominantly  for  residential  purposes  and consists of not more than
  four dwelling units, other than motels or hotels.
    (d)  "Real  property  insurance  escrow  account"  means  an   account
  established by contract between a mortgagor of real property improved by
  a  one  to  four family residence and the mortgage investing institution
  having a mortgage thereon, into which the mortgage investing institution
  shall deposit money collected from the  mortgagor  for  the  purpose  of
  paying real property insurance premiums.
    (e)  "One  to four family residence" means property used primarily for
  residential purposes for one to four families, including  property  held
  in  condominium  form of ownership, and which is occupied in whole or in
  part by the owner.
    2. Duties and responsibilities of mortgage investing institutions. (a)
  Every  mortgage  investing  institution  shall  make  all  payments  for
  insurance for which they hold real property insurance escrow accounts in
  a timely manner.
    (b)  Every  mortgage  investing  institution  shall  pay  at least the
  minimum rate of interest on each real property insurance escrow  account
  as prescribed therein.
    (c)  Every  mortgage  investing institution shall deposit funds from a
  real property insurance escrow account  of  a  mortgagor  in  a  banking
  institution whose deposits are insured by a federal agency or a licensed
  branch  of a foreign banking corporation whose deposits are insured by a
  federal  agency.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of   this
  subdivision,  the superintendent shall have the power to exempt from the
  requirements of this subdivision any banking organization which does not
  receive deposits or share accounts from the general public.
    (d) A mortgage investing institution  may  debit  a  mortgagor's  real
  property  insurance  escrow  account  for payments of insurance premiums
  only if actual payment for such premiums is made within twenty-one  days
  after such debit.
    (e)  Every  mortgage  investing  institution shall, at least annually,
  provide to the mortgagor an analysis  of  the  real  property  insurance
  escrow  account  of  the mortgagor. Such analysis shall contain, for the
  twelve month period covered by the  analysis,  at  least:  (1)  interest
  earned; (2) the amount of insurance premiums paid from the real property
  insurance  escrow  account;  and  (3)  the  account  balance  as  of the
  beginning of the period covered by the analysis and the  ending  account
  balance as of a specified date within forty-five days preceding the date
  of  the analysis. In addition, the mortgage investing institution shall,
  upon request by the mortgagor, provide to  the  mortgagor  the  date  or
  dates  of  the  payment  of  insurance  premiums from such real property
  insurance escrow account. The information required by this paragraph may
  be provided in notices otherwise  required  by  federal  or  state  law,
  regulation  or  rule  to  be  sent  on  at  least an annual basis to the
  mortgagor, including but not limited to notices under title  three-A  of
  the real property tax law.
    (f)  The  mortgage  investing  institution  shall  provide  a  written
  disclosure, in at least eight point bold face  type,  to  the  mortgagor
  with  respect  to  the  real  property  insurance  escrow  account. Such
  disclosure shall be provided at the time of  the  establishment  of  the
  real  property insurance escrow account. In the case of accounts already
  in existence on the effective date of this act, such disclosure shall be
  provided to the mortgagor with the  next  annual  analysis  required  by
  paragraph   (e)  of  this  subdivision.  The  disclosure  shall  contain
  substantially the following language:
    (i) The mortgage  investing  institution  is  obligated  to  make  all
  payments  for  real  property  insurance  for  which  the  real property
  insurance escrow account is maintained. If any  such  payments  are  not
  timely,  the  mortgage  investing  institution is responsible for making
  such payments including any penalties and interest and shall  be  liable
  for  all  damages  to  the  mortgagor resulting from its failure to make
  timely payment.
    (ii) In the event that a real property  insurance  premium  notice  is
  sent  directly to the mortgagor by the insurer, the mortgagor shall have
  the obligation to promptly transmit such premium notice to the  mortgage
  investing  institution,  or  such  other  institution or agent as may be
  designated  in  writing  by  the  mortgage  investing  institution,  for
  payment.  Failure  to  do  so  may  jeopardize the mortgagor's insurance
  coverage  and  may  excuse  the  mortgage  investing  institution   from
  liability  for  failure  to  timely  make  such  real property insurance
  payments.
    (iii) The mortgagor is  obligated  to  pay  one-twelfth  of  the  real
  property  insurance  premiums  each  month  to  the  mortgage  investing
  institution for deposit into the real property insurance escrow account,
  unless there is a deficiency or surplus in the account, in which case  a
  greater or lesser amount may be required.
    (iv)   If  the  mortgage  investing  institution  is  subject  to  the
  provisions of paragraph (c) of this subdivision, the mortgage  investing
  institution  must deposit the escrow payments made by the mortgagor in a
  banking  institution  or  a  licensed  branch  of  a   foreign   banking
  corporation whose deposits are insured by a federal agency.
    (g)  Every mortgage investing institution shall provide written notice
  to a mortgagor no later than ten business days  after  the  transfer  to
  another  mortgage  investing  institution  of  the  right to receive all
  payments from the mortgagor,  including  payments  made  into  the  real
  property  insurance escrow account, which notice shall include the name,
  address and telephone number of the mortgage  investing  institution  to
  which  such rights have been transferred. Upon request by the mortgagor,
  the mortgage investing institution shall advise  the  mortgagor  of  the
  amount  of  money in such account as of the date of such transfer. Every
  mortgage investing institution shall remain fully liable to pay any real
  property insurance premiums which are due and payable prior to the  date
  of  such  transfer, and the mortgage investing institution to which such
  rights have been transferred shall be liable to pay  any  real  property
  insurance  premiums  which  are  due  and payable after the date of such
  transfer, unless otherwise agreed among the parties to the transfer.
    (h) Every mortgage investing institution shall, no later  than  thirty
  days  after  the final payment of the mortgage loan, where the mortgagor
  retains ownership of the property,  send  to  the  mortgagor  a  written
  statement  that  shall  include,  but  not  be  limited to the following
  information: (i) that the real property  insurance  escrow  account  has
  been  or  will  be  terminated  (whichever is applicable); and (ii) that
  unless the mortgagor establishes a new real  property  insurance  escrow
  account  with  a  mortgage  investing institution, the mortgagor will be
  obliged to pay  to  the  appropriate  insurer  real  property  insurance
  premiums  becoming  due  thereafter.  The  written notice shall also set
  forth the effective date of the termination and shall provide  the  name
  and  address  of  each insurer and shall advise the mortgagor to contact
  such insurer for billing information.
    3. Mailing or delivery of bills to mortgage investing institutions.  A
  mortgagor  who has entered into a real property insurance escrow account
  may designate, in writing, a mortgage  investing  institution,  and  its
  successors,  agents  or  assigns  to  receive  premium  notices for real
  property insurance. The mortgage investing institution shall advise  the
  insurer  in  writing  within  fifteen days after the termination of such
  escrow account and shall inform the  insurer  that  all  future  premium
  notices  should  be sent directly to the insured. The mortgage investing
  institution shall, upon the request of the insurer, provide any document
  that clearly evidences its authorization to  receive  insurance  premium
  notices or obligation to pay real property insurance premiums.
    4.  Payments  by mortgage investing institutions. A mortgage investing
  institution may pay the real property insurance  premiums  due  on  more
  than  one  parcel  by  a  single  instrument, provided that the mortgage
  investing institution also provides to the insurer a  detailed  list  of
  the  specific  parcels  to  which  the instrument is to be applied, each
  parcel identification number  (if  any)  and  the  amount  of  the  real
  property insurance premium to be paid with respect to each parcel.
    5.  Liabilities  of  mortgage  investing  institutions. (a) A mortgage
  investing institution which receives moneys from a mortgagor for deposit
  into a real property insurance escrow account shall be  liable  to  such
  mortgagor,  upon  failure  to pay such real property insurance premiums,
  for the amount of the real property insurance  premiums  plus  penalties
  and interest imposed thereon.
    (b)  In  addition  to any other remedies permitted by law, a mortgagor
  whose real property insurance premiums are to be paid by means of a real
  property insurance escrow account pursuant to this section may bring  an
  action  against  the  mortgage  investing  institution  maintaining such
  account for the mortgagor under the provisions of  this  subdivision  if
  payments  for  real  property  insurance premiums have not been made for
  thirty days after the date such insurance premiums have become  due  and
  payable.  If  a court shall find, after considering the circumstances of
  the failure of a mortgage investing institution to pay the real property
  insurance premium of a mortgagor pursuant to an escrow  agreement,  that
  such  failure  was  due  to  the  negligence  or intentional acts of the
  mortgage investing institution, its agent, or both, the court may  award
  the  mortgagor  injunctive  relief  and  liquidated damages in an amount
  equal to three times the real property insurance premium not  paid,  but
  in no event greater than six thousand dollars.
    (c)  A mortgage investing institution shall be liable to the mortgagor
  for all damages and shall bear all responsibility for  failure  to  make
  timely payment of insurance premiums.
    (d)  The  mortgage  investing  institution shall have liability to the
  mortgagor under this subdivision only if:
    (i) the mortgage investing institution, or such other  institution  or
  agent  as  designated  in writing by the mortgage investing institution,
  has received the real property insurance premium notice; and
    (ii) the mortgagor has made required payments  for  deposit  into  the
  real property insurance escrow account.
    6.  Separability.  If any provision of this section or the application
  of such provision in certain circumstances shall be  held  invalid,  the
  validity of the remainder of this section and its applicability to other
  circumstances shall not be affected.


::: 6-l:highcost_home_loans.html
 
    &#167; 6-l. High-cost home loans. 1. Definitions. The following definitions
  apply for the purposes of this section:
    (a)  "Affiliate" means any company that controls, is controlled by, or
  is under common control with another company, as set forth in  the  Bank
  Holding  Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. &#167; 1841 et seq.), as amended from
  time to time.
    (b) "Annual percentage rate" means the annual percentage rate for  the
  loan   calculated   according   to   the   provisions   of  the  Federal
  Truth-in-Lending Act (15 U.S.C. &#167; 1601, et seq.),  and  the  regulations
  promulgated  thereunder  by  the  federal reserve board (as said act and
  regulations are amended from time to time).
    (c) "Bona fide  loan  discount  points"  means  loan  discount  points
  knowingly  paid  by  the  borrower  funded  through  any source, for the
  purpose of reducing, and which in fact result in a bona  fide  reduction
  of, the interest rate or time-price differential applicable to the loan,
  provided that the amount of the interest rate reduction purchased by the
  discount points is reasonably consistent with established industry norms
  and  practices  for secondary mortgage market transactions. For purposes
  of this section, it shall be presumed that a point is a bona  fide  loan
  discount  point  if  it  reduces  the  interest  rate  by  a  minimum of
  twenty-five basis points provided all other terms of the loan remain the
  same.
    (d) A "High-cost home loan" means a home loan in which  the  terms  of
  the  loan  exceed  one or more of the thresholds as defined in paragraph
  (g) of this subdivision.
    (e) "Home loan" means a loan, including an open-end credit plan, other
  than a reverse mortgage transaction or a loan made or fully or partially
  guaranteed by the state of New York mortgage agency, in which:
    (i) The principal amount of the loan at origination  does  not  exceed
  the  conforming  loan size limit (including any applicable special limit
  for jumbo mortgages) for a comparable dwelling as established from  time
  to time by the federal national mortgage association;
    (ii) The borrower is a natural person;
    (iii)  The  debt  is  incurred by the borrower primarily for personal,
  family, or household purposes;
    (iv) The loan is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on real estate
  improved by a one to four family dwelling, or by a condominium unit,  or
  by  any  certificate  of  stock or other evidence of ownership in, and a
  proprietary lease from,  a  corporation,  partnership  or  other  entity
  formed  for  the  purpose  of  cooperative  ownership of real estate, in
  either case used or occupied or intended to be used or occupied,  wholly
  or  partly, as the home or residence of one or more persons and which is
  or will  be  occupied  by  the  borrower  as  the  borrower's  principal
  dwelling; and
    (v) The property is located in this state.
    (f) "Points and fees" means:
    (i)  All  items  listed  in 15 U.S.C. &#167; 1605(a)(1) through (4), except
  interest or the time-price differential;
    (ii) All charges for items listed under &#167; 226.4(c)(7) of title  12  of
  the  code of federal regulations, as amended from time to time, but only
  if the lender receives direct or  indirect  compensation  in  connection
  with  the  charge  or  the charge is paid to an affiliate of the lender;
  otherwise, the charges are not included within the meaning of the phrase
  "points and fees";
    (iii) All compensation paid  directly  or  indirectly  to  a  mortgage
  broker,  including  a broker that originates a loan in its own name in a
  table-funded transaction, not otherwise included  in  subparagraphs  (i)
  and (ii) of this paragraph;
    (iv)  The  cost  of  all  premiums financed by the lender, directly or
  indirectly, for any credit life, credit disability, credit unemployment,
  or credit property insurance, or any other life or health insurance,  or
  any  payments financed by the lender directly or indirectly for any debt
  cancellation  or suspension agreement or contract, except that insurance
  premiums calculated and paid on a monthly basis shall not be  considered
  financed by the lender.
    (g) "Thresholds" means:
    (i)  For a first lien mortgage loan, the annual percentage rate of the
  home loan at consummation of the transaction  exceeds  eight  percentage
  points  over  the yield on treasury securities having comparable periods
  of maturity to the loan maturity measured as of the fifteenth day of the
  month immediately preceding the month in which the application  for  the
  extension  of  credit  is  received  by the lender; or for a subordinate
  mortgage  lien,  the  annual  percentage  rate  of  the  home  loan   at
  consummation of the transaction equals or exceeds nine percentage points
  over  the  yield  on  treasury  securities  having comparable periods of
  maturity on the fifteenth day of the  month  immediately  preceding  the
  month  in  which  the application for extension of credit is received by
  the lender; as determined by the following rules: if the  terms  of  the
  home  loan  offer  any  initial  or  introductory period, and the annual
  percentage rate is less than that which will apply after the end of such
  initial or introductory period, then the  annual  percentage  rate  that
  shall  be  taken  into account for purposes of this section shall be the
  rate which applies after the initial or introductory period; or
    (ii) The total points and fees exceed: five percent of the total  loan
  amount  if  the  total loan amount is fifty thousand dollars or more; or
  six percent of the total loan amount if the total loan amount  is  fifty
  thousand  dollars  or  more  and  the  loan  is  a  purchase  money loan
  guaranteed  by  the  federal  housing  administration  or  the  veterans
  administration;  or  the greater of six percent of the total loan amount
  or fifteen hundred dollars, if the total loan amount is less than  fifty
  thousand  dollars;  provided,  the  following  discount  points shall be
  excluded from the calculation of the total points and  fees  payable  by
  the borrower:
    (1)  Up to and including two bona fide loan discount points payable by
  the borrower in connection with the loan transaction, but  only  if  the
  interest  rate  from  which  the loan's interest rate will be discounted
  does not exceed by more than one percentage point the  yield  on  United
  States  treasury securities having comparable periods of maturity to the
  loan maturity measured as of the fifteenth day of the month  immediately
  preceding the month in which the application is received;
    (2)  Any  and  all  bona  fide loan discount points funded directly or
  indirectly through a grant from a federal,  state  or  local  government
  agency or 501(c)(3) organization.
    (h)  "Total  loan  amount" means the principal of the loan minus those
  points and fees as defined in paragraph (f) of this subdivision that are
  included in the principal amount.
    (i) "Lender" means a mortgage banker as defined in  paragraph  (f)  of
  subdivision  one  of  section  five hundred ninety of this chapter or an
  exempt organization as defined in paragraph (e) of  subdivision  one  of
  section five hundred ninety of this chapter.
    2.  Limitations  and  prohibited practices for high-cost home loans. A
  high-cost home loan shall be subject to the following limitations:
    (a) No call provisions. No high-cost home loan may contain a provision
  that permits the lender, in  its  sole  discretion,  to  accelerate  the
  indebtedness.  This provision does not prohibit acceleration of the loan
  in good faith due to the borrower's failure to  abide  by  the  material
  terms of the loan.
    (b)  No  balloon  payments.  No  high-cost  home  loan  may  contain a
  scheduled payment that is more than twice as large  as  the  average  of
  earlier  scheduled payments, unless such balloon payment becomes due and
  payable at least  fifteen  years  after  the  loan's  origination.  This
  provision  does  not  apply when the payment schedule is adjusted to the
  seasonal or irregular income of the borrower.
    (c) No negative amortization. No high-cost home  loan  may  contain  a
  payment schedule with regular periodic payments that cause the principal
  balance to increase. A loan is considered to have such a schedule if the
  borrower  is  given  the  option  to make regular periodic payments that
  cause the principal balance to increase, even if the  borrower  is  also
  given the option to make regular periodic payments that do not cause the
  principal  balance  to  increase.  This  paragraph  shall  not  prohibit
  negative amortization as a result of a temporary forbearance sought by a
  borrower.
    (d) No increased interest rate. No high-cost home loan may  contain  a
  provision   which  increases  the  interest  rate  after  default.  This
  provision does not apply to interest rate changes  in  a  variable  rate
  loan  otherwise  consistent  with  the provisions of the loan documents;
  provided that the change in the interest rate is not  triggered  by  the
  event of default or the acceleration of the indebtedness.
    (e) Limitation on advance payments. No high-cost home loan may include
  terms  under  which  more  than two periodic payments required under the
  loan are consolidated  and  paid  in  advance  from  the  loan  proceeds
  provided to the borrower.
    (f)  No  modification  or  deferral  fees.  A  lender may not charge a
  borrower any fees to modify, renew, extend, or amend  a  high-cost  home
  loan  or  to  defer  any payment due under the terms of a high-cost home
  loan if, after the modification, renewal, extension  or  amendment,  the
  loan  is  still a high-cost loan or, if no longer a high-cost home loan,
  the annual percentage rate has  not  been  decreased  by  at  least  two
  percentage  points.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  fees shall not
  include interest that is  otherwise  payable  and  consistent  with  the
  provisions  of  the  loan documents. This paragraph shall not prohibit a
  lender from charging points and fees in connection with  any  additional
  proceeds  received  by the borrower in connection with the modification,
  renewal, extension or amendment (over and above  the  current  principal
  balance  of  the  existing high-cost home loan) provided that the points
  and fees charged on the additional sum must reflect the lender's typical
  point and fee structure for high-cost home loans.
    (g) No oppressive mandatory arbitration  clauses.  No  high-cost  home
  loan   may  be  subject  to  a  mandatory  arbitration  clause  that  is
  oppressive, unfair, unconscionable, or substantially  in  derogation  of
  the rights of consumers.
    (h)  No  financing  of  insurance or other products sold in connection
  with the loan.  No  high-cost  home  loan  shall  finance,  directly  or
  indirectly,  any credit life, credit disability, credit unemployment, or
  credit property  insurance,  or  any  other  life  or  health  insurance
  premiums,   or   any  payments  directly  or  indirectly  for  any  debt
  cancellation or suspension agreement or  contract,  or  any  product  or
  service that is not necessary or related to the high-cost home loan such
  as  auto club memberships or credit report monitoring, but not including
  fees paid to the lender, broker, or closing agent, fees related  to  the
  recording  of  the  mortgage,  title insurance or other settlement fees.
  Insurance premiums or debt cancellation or  suspension  fees  calculated
  and paid on a monthly basis shall not be considered financed.
    (i)  No  "loan  flipping".  No  lender  or  mortgage  broker making or
  arranging a high-cost home loan may engage in the unfair act or practice
  of "loan flipping". "Loan flipping" is making a home loan to a  borrower
  that  refinances an existing home loan when the new loan does not have a
  tangible   net   benefit   to   the  borrower  considering  all  of  the
  circumstances, including the terms of both the new and refinanced loans,
  the cost of the new loan, and the borrower's situation.
    (j) No refinancing of special mortgages. No lender or mortgage  broker
  making or arranging a high-cost home loan may refinance an existing home
  loan  that is a special mortgage originated, subsidized or guaranteed by
  or  through  a  state,  tribal  or  local   government,   or   nonprofit
  organization,  which  either  bears  a below-market interest rate at the
  time of origination, or has nonstandard payment terms beneficial to  the
  borrower,  such  as  payments  that  vary  with income, are limited to a
  percentage of income, or where no payments are required under  specified
  conditions, and where, as a result of the refinancing, the borrower will
  lose  one  or  more  of the benefits of the special mortgage, unless the
  lender is provided prior to loan closing documentation by a HUD approved
  housing counselor or the lender who originally made the special mortgage
  that  a  borrower  has  received  home  loan  counseling  in  which  the
  advantages and disadvantages of the refinancing has been received.
    (k)  No  lending  without due regard to repayment ability. A lender or
  mortgage broker shall not make or arrange a high-cost home loan  without
  due  regard  to  repayment  ability,  based  upon  consideration  of the
  resident borrower or borrowers' current  and  expected  income,  current
  obligations,  employment  status,  and  other financial resources (other
  than the borrower's equity in the dwelling which  secures  repayment  of
  the  loan),  as  verified  by  detailed  documentation of all sources of
  income and corroborated by independent verification. However,  a  lender
  making a high-cost home loan shall benefit from a rebuttable presumption
  that  the  loan  was  made  with  due regard to repayment ability if the
  lender demonstrates that at  the  time  the  loan  is  consummated,  the
  resident  borrower  or borrowers' total monthly debts, including amounts
  owed under the loan,  do  not  exceed  fifty  percent  of  the  resident
  borrower  or borrowers' monthly gross income; and the lender follows the
  residual income guidelines established in 38 C.F.R. &#167; 36.4337(e) and  VA
  Form 26-6393.
    (l)   (i)  No  lending  without  counseling  disclosure  and  list  of
  counselors.  A lender or mortgage broker  must  deliver,  place  in  the
  mail,  fax  or  electronically transmit the following notice in at least
  twelve point type to the borrower  at  the  time  of  application:  "You
  should  consider financial counseling prior to executing loan documents.
  The enclosed list of counselors  is  provided  by  the  New  York  State
  Department   of  Financial  Services".  In  the  event  of  a  telephone
  application, the disclosures must be made immediately after  receipt  of
  the  application  by  telephone.  Such disclosure shall be on a separate
  form. In order to utilize an  electronic  transmission,  the  lender  or
  broker  must  first  obtain either written or electronically transmitted
  permission from the borrower. A list of approved  counselors,  available
  from  the  New  York  state  department  of financial servcies, shall be
  provided to the borrower by the lender or the  mortgage  broker  at  the
  time that this disclosure is given.
    (ii) A lender or mortgage broker shall not make or arrange a high-cost
  home  loan  unless  either  the  lender or mortgage broker has given the
  following notice in writing to the  borrower  within  three  days  after
  determining that the loan is a high-cost home loan, but no less than ten
  days before closing:
           "CONSUMER CAUTION AND HOME OWNERSHIP COUNSELING NOTICE
 
    If  you  obtain  this  loan, which pursuant to New York State Law is a
  High-Cost Home Loan, the lender will have a mortgage on your  home.  You
  could  lose your home, and any money you have put into it, if you do not
  meet your obligations under the loan.
    You should shop around and compare loan rates and fees. Mortgage  loan
  rates  and  closing costs and fees vary based on many factors, including
  your  particular  credit  and  financial  circumstances,  your  earnings
  history, the loan-to-value requested, and the type of property that will
  secure  your  loan.  The  loan  rate  and fees could vary based on which
  lender or mortgage broker you select.  Higher  rates  and  fees  may  be
  related  to  the  individual  circumstances  of  a particular consumer's
  application.
    You  should  consider  consulting  a  qualified   independent   credit
  counselor  or  other  experienced  financial adviser regarding the rate,
  fees, and provisions of this  mortgage  loan  before  you  proceed.  The
  enclosed list of counselors is provided by the New York State Department
  of Financial Services.
    You are not required to complete any loan agreement merely because you
  have  received  these  disclosures or have signed a loan application. If
  you proceed with this mortgage loan, you should also remember  that  you
  may  face serious financial risks if you use this loan to pay off credit
  card debts and other debts in connection with this transaction and  then
  subsequently  incur  significant new credit card charges or other debts.
  If you continue to accumulate debt after this loan is  closed  and  then
  experience  financial  difficulties,  you  could  lose your home and any
  equity you have in it if you do not meet your mortgage loan obligations.
    Your payments on existing debts contribute to your credit ratings. You
  should not accept any advice to ignore your  regular  payments  to  your
  existing creditors."
    (m)  Financing  of points and fees. In making a high-cost home loan, a
  lender shall not, directly or indirectly, finance any points and fees as
  defined in paragraph (f) of subdivision  one  of  this  section,  in  an
  amount that exceeds three percent of the principal amount of the loan.
    (n) Restrictions on home improvement contracts. A lender shall not pay
  a  contractor  under  a home improvement contract from the proceeds of a
  high-cost home loan other than: by an instrument payable to the borrower
  or jointly to the borrower and the contractor; or at the election of the
  borrower, through a third-party escrow agent in  accordance  with  terms
  established  in  a written agreement signed by the borrower, the lender,
  and the contractor prior to the disbursement.
    (o) No encouragement of default. In making or  arranging  a  high-cost
  home  loan, a lender or mortgage broker shall not recommend or encourage
  default on an existing loan or other debt prior  to  and  in  connection
  with  the  closing  or  planned  closing  of  a high-cost home loan that
  refinances all or any portion of such existing loan or debt.
    (p) Prohibited payments to mortgage brokers. In making or arranging  a
  high-cost  home  loan, no lender or mortgage broker shall accept or give
  any fee, kickback, thing of  value,  portion,  split  or  percentage  of
  charges,  other  than  as  payment  for  goods  or  facilities that were
  actually furnished  or  services  that  were  actually  performed.  Such
  payment  must  be  reasonably  related  to  the  value  of  the goods or
  facilities that were actually furnished or services that  were  actually
  performed.
    (q) No points and fees when a lender refinances its own high-cost home
  loan  with  a  new  high-cost  home  loan.  A  lender shall not charge a
  borrower points and fees in connection with a high-cost home loan if the
  proceeds of the high-cost home loan are used to  refinance  an  existing
  high-cost home loan held by the lender or an affiliate of the lender.
    (r)   No   prepayment   penalties.   Notwithstanding  paragraph  b  of
  subdivision three of section 5-501 of the general  obligations  law,  no
  prepayment  penalties  or  fees  shall  be  charged  or  collected  on a
  high-cost home loan. A prepayment penalty in a high-cost home loan shall
  be unenforceable.
    (s) No yield  spread  premiums.  In  connection  with  the  making  or
  brokering  of a home loan, no person may provide, and no mortgage broker
  or mortgage lender may receive, directly or indirectly, any compensation
  that is based on, or varies with, the  terms  of  any  home  loan.  This
  paragraph shall not prohibit compensation based on the principal balance
  of the loan.
    (t)  Mandatory  escrow  of taxes and insurance. No high-cost home loan
  shall be made after July first,  two  thousand  ten  unless  the  lender
  requires  and  collects  the monthly escrow of property taxes and hazard
  insurance. With respect to a high-cost home loan, a borrower  may  waive
  escrow  requirements  by  notifying the lender in writing after one year
  from consummation of the loan. The provisions of  this  paragraph  shall
  not  apply  to a high-cost home loan that is a subordinate lien when the
  taxes and insurance are escrowed through another home loan or where  the
  borrower can demonstrate a record of twelve months of timely payments of
  taxes and insurance on a previous home loan.
    (u) Mandatory disclosure of taxes and insurance payments. With respect
  to  a  high-cost home loan, the first time a borrower is informed of the
  anticipated or actual periodic  payment  amount  in  connection  with  a
  first-lien residential mortgage loan for a specific property, the lender
  or  mortgage  broker shall inform the borrower that an additional amount
  will be due for taxes and insurance and shall disclose to  the  borrower
  as  soon  as  reasonably  possible the approximate amount of the initial
  periodic payment for property taxes and hazard insurance.
    (v) No teaser rates. No  lender  or  mortgage  broker  shall  make  or
  arrange  a high-cost home loan which has an initial or introductory rate
  with a duration of less than six months.
    2-a. (a) High-cost home loan mortgages shall include a legend  on  top
  of  the  mortgage  in  twelve-point  type stating that the mortgage is a
  high-cost home loan subject to this section.
    (b) The lender shall report both the favorable and unfavorable payment
  history of the borrower  to  a  nationally  recognized  consumer  credit
  bureau  at  least  annually  during  such  period as the lender holds or
  services the high-cost home loan.
    3. The provisions of this section shall apply to any person who in bad
  faith  attempts  to  avoid  the  application  of  this  section  by  any
  subterfuge,  including but not limited to splitting or dividing any loan
  transaction  into  separate  parts  for  the  purpose  of  evading   the
  provisions of this section.
    4.  A lender of a high-cost home loan that, when acting in good faith,
  fails to comply with the provisions of this section, will not be  deemed
  to have violated this section if the lender establishes that either:
    (a)  Within  thirty  days  of  the  loan  closing  and  prior  to  the
  institution of any action under this section, the borrower  is  notified
  of the compliance failure, appropriate restitution is made, and whatever
  adjustments  are necessary are made to the loan to either, at the choice
  of  the  borrower,  (i)  make  the  high-cost  home  loan  satisfy   the
  requirements  of this section, or (ii) change the terms of the loan in a
  manner beneficial to the borrower so  that  the  loan  is  no  longer  a
  high-cost home loan subject to the provisions of this section; or
    (b)   The   compliance   failure  resulted  from  a  bona  fide  error
  notwithstanding the maintenance  of  procedures  reasonably  adapted  to
  avoid  such  errors  and,  within  sixty days after the discovery of the
  compliance failure and prior to the institution of any action under this
  section  or the receipt of written notice of the compliance failure, the
  borrower is notified of the compliance failure, appropriate  restitution
  is  made, and whatever adjustments are necessary are made to the loan to
  either, at the choice of the borrower, (i) make the high-cost home  loan
  satisfy  the  requirements  of this section, or (ii) change the terms of
  the loan in a manner beneficial to the borrower so that the loan  is  no
  longer  a high-cost home loan subject to the provisions of this section.
  Examples of a bona fide error include  clerical,  calculation,  computer
  malfunction  and  programming,  and  printing  errors. An error of legal
  judgment with respect to a person's obligations under  this  section  is
  not a bona fide error.
    5.  The  attorney  general,  the  superintendent,  or  any  party to a
  high-cost home loan may enforce the provisions of this section.
    6. A private action against the lender or mortgage broker pursuant  to
  this  section  must  be commenced within six years of origination of the
  high-cost home loan.
    7. Any person found  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  to  have
  violated this section shall be liable to the borrower for the following:
    (a)  actual  damages,  including consequential and incidental damages;
  and
    (b) statutory damages as follows (i) all of the  interest,  earned  or
  unearned,  points  and fees, and closing costs charged on the loan shall
  be forfeited and any amounts paid shall be refunded;  except  that  this
  element of statutory damages shall not be awarded for violations of:
    (1)  paragraph  (i)  of subdivision two of this section regarding loan
  flipping; and
    (2) paragraph  (k)  of  subdivision  two  of  this  section  regarding
  ensuring the borrower's ability to repay the loan, so long as the lender
  demonstrates  that  at  the  time  of  the loan, it verified by detailed
  documentation all sources of the borrower's income and  corroborated  it
  with independent verification; or
    (ii) five thousand dollars per violation or twice the amount of points
  and  fees  and  closing  costs  as defined in this section, whichever is
  greater, for violations of:
    (1) paragraph (i) of subdivision two of this  section  regarding  loan
  flipping; and
    (2)  paragraph  (k)  of  subdivision  two  of  this  section regarding
  ensuring the borrower's ability to repay the loan, where the borrower is
  not entitled to relief under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.
    8. A court may also award reasonable attorneys' fees to  a  prevailing
  borrower.
    9.  A  borrower  may be granted injunctive, declaratory and such other
  equitable relief as the court deems appropriate in an action to  enforce
  compliance with this section.
    10.  Upon  a  finding  by the court of an intentional violation by the
  lender  of  this  section,  or  regulation  thereunder,  the  home  loan
  agreement  shall be rendered void, and the lender shall have no right to
  collect, receive or retain any principal,  interest,  or  other  charges
  whatsoever  with  respect  to the loan, and the borrower may recover any
  payments made under the agreement.
    11. Upon a judicial finding that a high-cost home  loan  violates  any
  provision  of  this  section,  whether  such  violation  is raised as an
  affirmative  claim  or  as  a  defense,  the  loan  transaction  may  be
  rescinded.  Such  remedy  of  rescission shall be available as a defense
  without time limitation.
    12.  The  remedies provided in this section are not intended to be the
  exclusive remedies available to a borrower of a high-cost home loan.
    13. In any action by an assignee to enforce a loan against a  borrower
  in default more than sixty days or in foreclosure, a borrower may assert
  any claims in recoupment and defenses to payment under the provisions of
  this  section  and  with  respect to the loan, without time limitations,
  that the borrower could assert against the original lender of the loan.
    14. The provisions of this section shall  be  severable,  and  if  any
  phrase,  clause, sentence, or provision is declared to be invalid, or is
  preempted by federal law or regulation, the validity of the remainder of
  this section shall not be affected thereby. If  any  provision  of  this
  section  is  declared to be inapplicable to any specific category, type,
  or kind of points  and  fees,  the  provisions  of  this  section  shall
  nonetheless continue to apply with respect to all other points and fees.


::: 6-m:subprime_home_loans.html
 
    &#167;  6-m. Subprime home loans. 1. Definitions. The following definitions
  apply for the purposes of this section:
    (a) "Annual percentage rate" means the annual percentage rate for  the
  loan   calculated   according   to   the   provisions   of  the  Federal
  Truth-in-Lending Act (15 U.S.C. &#167; 1601, et seq.),  and  the  regulations
  promulgated  thereunder  by  the  federal reserve board (as said act and
  regulations are amended from time to time).
    (b) "Fully indexed rate" means: (i) for an adjustable rate loan  based
  on  an index, the annual percentage rate calculated using the index rate
  on the loan on the date the lender provides the  "good  faith  estimate"
  required  under  12  USC &#167;2601 et seq. plus the margin to be added to it
  after the expiration of any introductory period or periods; or (ii)  for
  a  fixed  rate loan, the annual percentage rate on the loan disregarding
  any introductory rate or rates and any interest rate caps that limit how
  quickly the contractual interest rate may be reached calculated  at  the
  time the lender issues its commitment.
    (c)  "Subprime  home  loan"  means  a  home  loan in which the initial
  interest rate or the fully-indexed rate, whichever is higher, exceeds by
  more than one and three-quarters  percentage  points  for  a  first-lien
  loan,  or  by more than three and three-quarters percentage points for a
  subordinate-lien loan, the average commitment  rate  for  loans  in  the
  northeast region with a comparable duration to the duration of such home
  loan, as published by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (herein
  "Freddie  Mac")  in  its  weekly  Primary  Mortgage Market Survey (PMMS)
  posted in the week prior to the week in which the  lender  provides  the
  "good  faith  estimate"  required  under  12  USC &#167;2601 et seq. The term
  "subprime home loan" excludes  a  transaction  to  finance  the  initial
  construction  of a dwelling, i.e., a construction only loan, a temporary
  or "bridge" loan with a term of twelve months or less, such as a loan to
  purchase a new dwelling where the  borrower  plans  to  sell  a  current
  dwelling within twelve months, or a home equity line of credit but shall
  include  any loan, however structured, that thereafter is converted into
  a permanent loan.
    (i) The comparable duration for a home loan  shall  be  determined  as
  follows:  for  an  adjustable or variable home loan with an initial rate
  that is fixed for less than three years, the Freddie Mac  survey  result
  for  a  one-year adjustable rate mortgage; for an adjustable or variable
  home loan with an initial rate that is fixed for at least  three  years,
  the  Freddie  Mac  survey  result for a five-year hybrid adjustable rate
  mortgage; for a fixed rate home loan with a term  of  fifteen  years  or
  less,  the  Freddie  Mac  survey  result  for  a fifteen-year fixed rate
  mortgage; and for a fixed rate home  loan  with  a  term  of  more  than
  fifteen  years,  the  Freddie  Mac survey result for a thirty-year fixed
  rate  mortgage.  The  superintendent  may  prescribe  by  regulation   a
  different  comparable  duration  standard as necessary or appropriate to
  reflect changes in the terms and types  of  mortgages  included  in  the
  Freddie Mac survey.
    (ii) Notwithstanding the comparable rates set forth in this paragraph,
  and notwithstanding any other law, if the superintendent determines that
  by  statute,  rule  or  regulation, different thresholds for determining
  underwriting  standards  for  subprime  loans   become   applicable   to
  nationally  chartered  lending  institutions,  or the provisions of this
  section have had an unduly negative  effect  upon  the  availability  or
  price  of  mortgage financing in this state, the superintendent may from
  time to time designate such other threshold rates as may be necessary to
  achieve  parity  between  such  nationally  chartered  institutions  and
  banking organizations, mortgage banks and mortgage brokers in this state
  or  to  alleviate such unduly negative effects. Such determination shall
  promptly be published on the website  of  the  department  of  financial
  services.
    (d) "Home loan" means a loan, including an open-end credit plan, other
  than a reverse mortgage transaction or a loan made or fully or partially
  guaranteed by the state of New York mortgage agency, in which:
    (i)  The  principal  amount of the loan at origination does not exceed
  the conforming loan size limit (including any applicable  special  limit
  for  jumbo mortgages) for a comparable dwelling as established from time
  to time by the federal national mortgage association;
    (ii) The borrower is a natural person;
    (iii) The debt is incurred by the  borrower  primarily  for  personal,
  family, or household purposes;
    (iv) The loan is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on real estate
  improved  by a one to four family dwelling, or by a condominium unit, or
  by any certificate of stock or other evidence of  ownership  in,  and  a
  proprietary  lease  from,  a  corporation,  partnership  or other entity
  formed for the purpose of  cooperative  ownership  of  real  estate,  in
  either case, used or occupied or intended to be used or occupied, wholly
  or  partly, as the home or residence of one or more persons and which is
  or will  be  occupied  by  the  borrower  as  the  borrower's  principal
  dwelling; and
    (v) The property is located in this state.
    (e)  "Lender"  means  a mortgage banker as defined in paragraph (f) of
  subdivision one of section five hundred ninety of  this  chapter  or  an
  exempt  organization  as  defined in paragraph (e) of subdivision one of
  section five hundred ninety of this chapter.
    (f) "Mortgage broker" means a mortgage broker as defined in  paragraph
  (g)  of  subdivision  one of section five hundred ninety of this chapter
  and a mortgage banker as defined in paragraph (f) of subdivision one  of
  section  five  hundred ninety of this chapter, when such mortgage banker
  solicits, processes, places or negotiates a mortgage loan for others.
    2. Limitations and prohibited practices for  subprime  home  loans.  A
  subprime home loan shall be subject to the following limitations:
    (a)  No call provisions. No subprime home loan may contain a provision
  that permits the lender, in  its  sole  discretion,  to  accelerate  the
  indebtedness. This provision shall not prohibit acceleration of the loan
  in  good  faith  due  to the borrower's failure to abide by the material
  terms of the loan.
    (b) No negative amortization. No subprime  home  loan  may  contain  a
  payment  schedule with regular periodic payments that cause or may cause
  the principal balance to increase. A loan is considered to have  such  a
  schedule  if  the  borrower is given the option to make regular periodic
  payments that cause the principal  balance  to  increase,  even  if  the
  borrower is also given the option to make regular periodic payments that
  do not cause the principal balance to increase. This paragraph shall not
  prohibit  negative  amortization  as a result of a temporary forbearance
  sought by a borrower.
    (c) No increased interest rate. No subprime home loan  may  contain  a
  provision   which  increases  the  interest  rate  after  default.  This
  provision shall not apply to interest rate changes in  a  variable  rate
  loan  otherwise  consistent  with  the provisions of the loan documents;
  provided that the change in the interest rate is not  triggered  by  the
  event of default or the acceleration of the indebtedness.
    (d)  Limitation on advance payments. No subprime home loan may include
  terms under which more than two periodic  payments  required  under  the
  loan  are  consolidated  and  paid  in  advance  from  the loan proceeds
  provided to the borrower.
    (e) No modification or deferral  fees.  A  lender  may  not  charge  a
  borrower  any  fees  to  modify, renew, extend, or amend a subprime home
  loan or to defer any payment due under the terms of a suprime home  loan
  if, after the modification, renewal, extension or amendment, the loan is
  still  a  subprime  home loan or, if no longer a subprime home loan, the
  annual percentage rate has not been decreased by at least two percentage
  points. For purposes of this paragraph, fees shall not include  interest
  that is otherwise payable and consistent with the provisions of the loan
  documents.  This  paragraph  shall  not  prohibit a lender from charging
  points and fees in connection with any additional proceeds  received  by
  the  borrower in connection with the modification, renewal, extension or
  amendment (over and above the current principal balance of the  existing
  subprime  home  loan)  provided  that the points and fees charged on the
  additional sum must reflect the lender's typical point and fee structure
  for subprime home loans. This paragraph shall not apply if the  existing
  subprime home loan is in default or is sixty or more days delinquent and
  the modification, renewal, extension, amendment or deferral is part of a
  work-out process.
    (f) No oppressive mandatory arbitration clauses. No subprime home loan
  may  be  subject  to  a mandatory arbitration clause that is oppressive,
  unfair, unconscionable, or substantially in derogation of the rights  of
  consumers.
    (g)  No  financing  of  insurance or other products sold in connection
  with the  loan.  No  subprime  home  loan  shall  finance,  directly  or
  indirectly,  any credit life, credit disability, credit unemployment, or
  credit property  insurance,  or  any  other  life  or  health  insurance
  premiums,   or   any  payments  directly  or  indirectly  for  any  debt
  cancellation or suspension agreement or  contract,  or  any  product  or
  service  that  is not necessary or related to the home loan such as auto
  club memberships or credit report monitoring,  but  not  including  fees
  paid  to  the  lender,  broker,  or  closing  agent, fees related to the
  recording of the mortgage, title insurance  or  other  settlement  fees.
  Insurance  premiums  or  debt cancellation or suspension fees calculated
  and paid on a monthly basis shall not be considered financed.
    (h) No "loan  flipping".  No  lender  or  mortgage  broker  making  or
  arranging  a subprime home loan may engage in the unfair act or practice
  of "loan flipping". "Loan flipping" is making a home loan to a  borrower
  that  refinances an existing home loan when the new loan does not have a
  tangible  net  benefit  to  the  borrower   considering   all   of   the
  circumstances, including the terms of both the new and refinanced loans,
  the cost of the new loan, and the borrower's situation.
    (i)  No  refinancing of special mortgages. No lender making a subprime
  home loan may refinance an existing home loan that is a special mortgage
  originated, subsidized or guaranteed by or through a  state,  tribal  or
  local  government,  or  nonprofit  organization,  which  either  bears a
  below-market  interest  rate  at  the  time  of  origination,   or   has
  nonstandard  payment  terms beneficial to the borrower, such as payments
  that vary with income, are limited to a percentage of income,  or  where
  no  payments  are  required  under specified conditions, and where, as a
  result of the refinancing, the borrower will lose one  or  more  of  the
  benefits of the special mortgage, unless the lender is provided prior to
  loan  closing  documentation  by a HUD approved housing counselor or the
  lender who originally made the special mortgage that  the  borrower  has
  received  home loan counseling about the advantages and disadvantages of
  the refinancing.
    (j) No lending without providing information on  the  availability  of
  counseling. A lender or mortgage broker must deliver, place in the mail,
  fax  or  electronically transmit the following notice in at least twelve
  point type to the borrower of a  subprime  home  loan  at  the  time  of
  application:   "You   should  consider  financial  counseling  prior  to
  executing loan documents. The enclosed list of counselors is provided by
  the  New York State Department of Financial Services." In the event of a
  telephone application, the disclosures must be  made  immediately  after
  receipt  of  the application by telephone. Such disclosure shall be on a
  separate form. In order  to  utilize  an  electronic  transmission,  the
  lender  or  broker  must  first  obtain either written or electronically
  transmitted permission from the borrower. A list of approved counselors,
  available from the New York  state  department  of  financial  services,
  shall  be  provided to the borrower by the lender or the mortgage broker
  at the time that this disclosure is given.
    (k) No encouragement of default. In making  or  arranging  a  subprime
  home  loan, a lender or mortgage broker shall not recommend or encourage
  default on an existing loan or other debt prior  to  and  in  connection
  with  the  closing  or  planned  closing  of the subprime home loan that
  refinances all or any portion of such existing loan or debt.
    (l) Prohibited payments to mortgage bankers and brokers. In making  or
  arranging  a  subprime home loan, no lender, mortgage banker or mortgage
  broker shall accept or give any fee, kickback, thing of value,  portion,
  split  or  percentage  of  charges,  other  than as payment for goods or
  facilities that were actually furnished or services that  were  actually
  performed.  Such  payment must be reasonably related to the value of the
  goods or facilities that were actually furnished or services  that  were
  actually performed.
    (m)  No  prepayment  penalties  on  subprime home loans. No prepayment
  penalties or fees shall be charged or collected on a subprime home loan.
  A prepayment penalty in a subprime home loan shall be unenforceable.
    (n) No yield  spread  premiums.  In  connection  with  the  making  or
  brokering  of a home loan, no person may provide, and no mortgage broker
  or mortgage lender may receive, directly or indirectly, any compensation
  that is based on, or varies with, the  terms  of  any  home  loan.  This
  paragraph shall not prohibit compensation based on the principal balance
  of the loan.
    (o)  Mandatory  escrow  of  taxes and insurance. No subprime home loan
  shall be made after July first,  two  thousand  ten  unless  the  lender
  requires  and  collects  the monthly escrow of property taxes and hazard
  insurance.  With respect to a subprime home loan, a borrower  may  waive
  escrow  requirements  by  notifying the lender in writing after one year
  from consummation of the loan. The provisions of  this  paragraph  shall
  not  apply  to  a subprime home loan that is a subordinate lien when the
  taxes and insurance are escrowed through another home loan or where  the
  borrower can demonstrate a record of twelve months of timely payments of
  taxes and insurance on a previous home loan.
    (p) Mandatory disclosure of taxes and insurance payments. With respect
  to  a  subprime  home loan, the first time a borrower is informed of the
  anticipated or actual periodic  payment  amount  in  connection  with  a
  first-lien residential mortgage loan for a specific property, the lender
  or  mortgage  broker shall inform the borrower that an additional amount
  will be due for taxes and insurance and shall disclose to  the  borrower
  as  soon  as  reasonably  possible the approximate amount of the initial
  periodic payment for property taxes and hazard insurance.
    (q) No teaser rates. No  lender  or  mortgage  broker  shall  make  or
  arrange  a  subprime home loan which has an initial or introductory rate
  with a duration of less than six months.
    3. Certain loan provisions rendered void. Any provision in a  subprime
  home  loan  that  violates  subdivision  two  of  this  section shall be
  rendered void.
    4. Ability to repay. No  lender  or  mortgage  broker  shall  make  or
  arrange  a  subprime  home  loan  unless  the  lender or mortgage broker
  reasonably and in good faith believes at the time of  the  loan  closing
  that  one  or  more  of  the  borrowers, when considered individually or
  collectively,  has  the ability to repay the loan according to its terms
  and to pay applicable real estate taxes and hazard  insurance  premiums.
  If  a lender or mortgage broker making or arranging a subprime home loan
  knows that one or more home loans secured by the same real property will
  be made contemporaneously to the same borrower with  the  subprime  home
  loan  being  made  or  arranged  by  that lender or mortgage broker, the
  lender or mortgage broker making or arranging  the  subprime  home  loan
  must  document  the borrower's ability to repay the combined payments of
  all loans on the same real property.
    (a) A lender or mortgage broker's analysis of a borrower's ability  to
  repay  a  subprime  home  loan  according  to  the loan terms and to pay
  related real estate taxes and insurance premiums shall  be  based  on  a
  consideration  of  the  borrower's  credit history, current and expected
  income, current obligations,  employment  status,  and  other  financial
  resources  other  than  the  borrower's equity in the real property that
  secures repayment of the subprime home loan.
    (b) In determining a borrower's ability to repay a subprime home loan,
  the lender or mortgage broker shall take reasonable steps to verify  the
  accuracy and completeness of information provided by or on behalf of the
  borrower  using  tax returns, payroll receipts, bank records, reasonable
  alternative methods, or reasonable third-party verification.
    (c) In determining a borrower's ability to repay a subprime home  loan
  according to its terms when the loan has an adjustable rate feature, the
  lender or mortgage broker shall calculate the monthly payment amount for
  principal  and  interest  by  assuming  (i)  the loan proceeds are fully
  disbursed on the date of the loan closing, (ii) the loan is to be repaid
  in substantially equal monthly  amortizing  payments  of  principal  and
  interest  over the entire term of the loan, with no balloon payment, and
  (iii) the interest rate over the entire term of the loan is a fixed rate
  equal to the higher of the initial interest rate or  the  fully  indexed
  rate  at  the  time of the loan closing, without considering any initial
  discounted rate.
    (d) A lender or mortgage broker's analysis of a borrower's ability  to
  repay   a   subprime  home  loan  may  utilize  reasonable  commercially
  recognized underwriting standards and methodologies, including automated
  underwriting systems, provided the standards  and  methodologies  comply
  with the provisions of this section.
    5.  Required  legend.  Subprime  home  loan  mortgages shall include a
  legend on top of the mortgage in  twelve-point  type  stating  that  the
  mortgage is a subprime home loan subject to this section.
    6.  Evasion  of statutory requirements. The provisions of this section
  shall apply to any person who attempts to avoid the application of  this
  section  by  any  subterfuge, including but not limited to, splitting or
  dividing any loan transaction into separate parts  for  the  purpose  of
  evading the provisions of this section.
    7.  Good  faith  errors.  A  lender of a subprime home loan that, when
  acting in good faith, fails  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this
  section,  shall not be deemed to have violated this section if, prior to
  the institution of any action and before the borrower is prejudiced, the
  lender notifies the borrower  of  the  compliance  failure,  appropriate
  restitution  is  made,  and  whatever adjustments that are necessary are
  made to the loan to make the  loan  satisfy  the  requirements  of  this
  section.
    8. Enforcement. The attorney general or the superintendent may enforce
  the provisions of this section.
    9.  Damages.  Any  person  found by a preponderance of the evidence to
  have violated this section shall be liable to the borrower of a subprime
  home loan for actual damages.
    10. Attorneys fees. A court may also award reasonable attorneys'  fees
  to a prevailing borrower in a foreclosure action.
    11.   Equitable   relief.   A  borrower  may  be  granted  injunctive,
  declaratory  and  such  other  equitable  relief  as  the  court   deems
  appropriate in an action to enforce compliance with this section.
    12.  Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided in this section are
  not intended to be the exclusive remedies available to a borrower  of  a
  subprime home loan.
    13.  Defense  to foreclosure. In any action by a lender or assignee to
  enforce a loan against a borrower in default more than sixty days or  in
  foreclosure,  a  borrower may assert as a defense, any violation of this
  section.
    14. Severability. The provisions of this section shall  be  severable,
  and  if  any  phrase,  clause,  sentence, or provision is declared to be
  invalid, or is preempted by federal law or regulation, the  validity  of
  the  remainder  of  this  section  shall not be affected thereby. If any
  provision of this section is declared to be inapplicable to any specific
  category, type, or kind of points and fees with respect to a home  loan,
  the  provisions of this section shall nonetheless continue to apply with
  respect to all other points and fees.


::: 6001:bylaws.html
 
    &#167; 6001.  By-laws.  1.  The  initial  by-laws of a corporation shall be
  adopted by its  incorporators.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  the
  organization  certificate  under  section six thousand thirteen, by-laws
  may be amended, repealed or adopted by vote of the holders of the shares
  at the time entitled to vote in the election of any directors.  When  so
  provided  in  the  organization  certificate,  a  by-law  adopted by the
  stockholders or a by-law validly adopted prior to the effective date  of
  this  article,  by-laws  may also be amended, repealed or adopted by the
  board, but any by-law adopted by the board may be amended or repealed by
  the stockholders entitled  to  vote  thereon  as  herein  provided.  Any
  reference  in  this  article  to  a "by-law adopted by the stockholders"
  shall include a by-law adopted by the incorporators.
    2. If any by-law regulating an  impending  election  of  directors  is
  adopted,  amended  or repealed by the board, there shall be set forth in
  the notice of the next meeting  of  stockholders  for  the  election  of
  directors  the  by-law  so adopted, amended or repealed, together with a
  concise statement of the changes made.
    3. The by-laws may contain any provision relating to the  business  of
  the corporation, the conduct of its affairs, its rights or powers or the
  rights or powers of its stockholders, directors, committees or officers,
  not inconsistent with this chapter or any other statute of this state or
  the organization certificate.


::: 6002:meetings_of_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 6002.  Meetings  of stockholders. 1. Meetings of stockholders may be
  held at such place, within or without this state, as may be fixed by  or
  under  the by-laws, or if not so fixed, at the office of the corporation
  in this state except that the annual meetings of stockholders  of  banks
  and  trust  companies,  stock-form savings banks, and stock-form savings
  and loan associations shall be held in the city or village in which  the
  office  of  the  bank  or  trust  company,  stock-form  savings bank, or
  stock-form savings and loan association is located.
    2. A meeting of stockholders shall be held annually for  the  election
  of directors and the transaction of other business within the first four
  months  of  each  institution's  fiscal year in the case of banks, trust
  companies,  stock-form  savings  banks,  stock-form  savings  and   loan
  associations, and safe deposit companies and on a date fixed by or under
  the  by-laws  in the case of investment companies. A failure to hold the
  annual meeting on the date so fixed or to elect a sufficient  number  of
  directors  to  conduct  the business of the corporation shall not work a
  forfeiture or give cause for dissolution of the corporation.
    3. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the board and
  by such person or persons as may be so authorized  by  the  organization
  certificate or the by-laws.


::: 6003:special_meeting_for_election_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 6003. Special meeting for election of directors. 1. If, for a period
  of  one  month after the date fixed by or under section six thousand two
  or the by-laws for the annual meeting of stockholders, or if no date has
  been so fixed, for a period of thirteen months after  the  formation  of
  the  corporation or the last annual meeting, there is a failure to elect
  a sufficient  number  of  directors  to  conduct  the  business  of  the
  corporation,  the board shall call a special meeting for the election of
  directors. If such special meeting is not called by the board within two
  weeks after the expiration of such period or if  it  is  so  called  but
  there  is  a  failure to elect such directors for a period of two months
  after the expiration of such period,  holders  of  ten  percent  of  the
  shares  entitled  to  vote  in an election of directors may, in writing,
  demand the call of a special  meeting  for  the  election  of  directors
  specifying  the date and month thereof, which shall not be less than two
  nor more than three months from the date of such call.  The secretary of
  the corporation upon receiving the written demand  shall  promptly  give
  notice  of  such  meeting,  or if he fails to do so within five business
  days thereafter, any stockholder  signing  such  demand  may  give  such
  notice.  The meeting shall be held at the place fixed in the by-laws or,
  if not so fixed, at the office of the corporation.
    2. At any such special  meeting  called  on  demand  of  stockholders,
  notwithstanding  section six thousand eight, the stockholders attending,
  in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote in an election of  directors
  shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of electing directors, but not
  for the transaction of any other business.


::: 6004:fixing_record_date.html
 
    &#167; 6004.  Fixing  record  date.  1.  For the purpose of determining the
  stockholders entitled to  notice  of  or  to  vote  at  any  meeting  of
  stockholders  or  any  adjournment  thereof, or to express consent to or
  dissent from any proposal without a  meeting,  or  for  the  purpose  of
  determining  stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or
  the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the
  by-laws may provide for fixing or, in the absence of such provision, the
  board may fix, in advance, a date  as  the  record  date  for  any  such
  determination  of  stockholders.  Such date shall not be more than fifty
  nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting,  nor  more  than
  fifty days prior to any other action.
    2. If no record date is fixed:
    (a)  The record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to
  notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the  close
  of  business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given,
  or, if no notice is given, the day on which the meeting is held.
    (b) The record date for determining stockholders for any purpose other
  than that specified in paragraph (a) shall be at the close  of  business
  on  the  day  on  which  the resolution of the board relating thereto is
  adopted.
    3. When a determination of stockholders of record entitled  to  notice
  of  or  to vote at any meeting of stockholders has been made as provided
  in this section, such  determination  shall  apply  to  any  adjournment
  thereof, unless the board fixes a new record date under this section for
  the adjourned meeting.


::: 6005:notice_of_meetings_of_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 6005.  Notice  of  meetings  of  stockholders. 1. Whenever under the
  provisions of this chapter stockholders are  required  or  permitted  to
  take any action at a meeting, written notice shall state the place, date
  and  hour  of  the meeting and unless it is the annual meeting, indicate
  that it is being issued by or at the direction of the person or  persons
  calling  the  meeting.  Notice of a special meeting shall also state the
  purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. If, at any meeting,
  action  is  proposed  to  be  taken  which  would,  if  taken,   entitle
  stockholders   fulfilling  the  requirements  of  section  six  thousand
  twenty-two to receive payment for  their  shares,  the  notice  of  such
  meeting  shall include a statement of that purpose and to that effect. A
  copy of the notice of any meeting shall be given, personally or by mail,
  not less than ten nor more than  fifty  days  before  the  date  of  the
  meeting,  to  each  stockholder  entitled  to  vote  at such meeting. If
  mailed, such notice is given when deposited in the United  States  mail,
  with postage thereon prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address
  as  it appears on the record of stockholders, or, if he shall have filed
  with the secretary of the corporation a written request that notices  to
  him  be mailed to some other address, then directed to him at such other
  address. An affidavit of the  secretary  or  other  persons  giving  the
  notice  or  of  the  transfer  agent  of the corporation that the notice
  required by this section has been given shall, in the absence of  fraud,
  be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated.
    2.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, it shall not
  be necessary, unless the by-laws require otherwise, to give  any  notice
  of  the  adjourned meeting if the time and place to which the meeting is
  adjourned are announced at the  meeting  at  which  the  adjournment  is
  taken,  and at the adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that
  might have  been  transacted  on  the  original  date  of  the  meeting.
  However,  if after the adjournment the board fixes a new record date for
  the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be  given
  to  each stockholder of record on the new record date entitled to notice
  under subdivision one.
    3. To the extent that any provision of this section conflicts with any
  other provision of this chapter relating to a notice  of  a  meeting  of
  stockholders, the latter shall prevail.


::: 6006:waivers_of_notice.html
 
    &#167; 6006.  Waivers of notice. Notice of meeting need not be given to any
  stockholder who submits a signed waiver  of  notice,  in  person  or  by
  proxy,  whether  before  or  after  the  meeting.  The attendance of any
  stockholder at a meeting, in person  or  by  proxy,  without  protesting
  prior  to  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting  the lack of notice of such
  meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by him.


::: 6007:list_of_stockholders_at_meetings.html
 
    &#167; 6007. List of stockholders at meetings. A list of stockholders as of
  the  record date, certified by the corporate officer responsible for its
  preparation or by a transfer agent, shall be produced at any meeting  of
  stockholders   upon   the  request  thereat  or  prior  thereto  of  any
  stockholder. If the right to vote at  any  meeting  is  challenged,  the
  inspectors  of election, or person presiding thereat, shall require such
  list of stockholders to be produced as evidence  of  the  right  of  the
  persons  challenged  to vote at such meeting, and all persons who appear
  from such list to be stockholders entitled to vote thereat may  vote  at
  such meeting.


::: 6008:quorum_of_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 6008.  Quorum  of  stockholders. 1. The holders of a majority of the
  shares entitled to vote thereat shall constitute a quorum at  a  meeting
  of  stockholders for the transaction of any business, provided that when
  a specified item of business is required to be voted on by  a  class  or
  series,  voting  as  a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of
  such class or series shall constitute a quorum for  the  transaction  of
  such specified item of business.
    2.  The organization certificate or by-laws may provide for any lesser
  quorum not less than one-third of the shares entitled to vote,  and  the
  organization  certificate  may,  under  section  six  thousand  sixteen,
  provide for a greater quorum.
    3. When a quorum is once present to organize  a  meeting,  it  is  not
  broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholders.
    4.  The  stockholders  present  may  adjourn  the  meeting despite the
  absence of a quorum.


::: 6009:proxies.html
 
    &#167; 6009. Proxies. 1. Every stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of
  stockholders  or  to  express  consent  or dissent without a meeting may
  authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy.
    2.  Every  proxy  must  be  signed   by   the   stockholder   or   his
  attorney-in-fact. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven
  months  from  the  date  thereof unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
  Every proxy shall be  revocable  at  the  pleasure  of  the  stockholder
  executing it, except as otherwise provided in this section.
    3.  The authority of the holder of a proxy to act shall not be revoked
  by the incompetence or death of the stockholder who executed  the  proxy
  unless,  before  the  authority  is  exercised,  written  notice  of  an
  adjudication of such incompetence or of such death is  received  by  the
  corporate officer responsible for maintaining the list of stockholders.
    4.  Except  when  other  provision  shall  have  been  made by written
  agreement between the parties, the record holder  of  shares  which  are
  held  by  a  pledgee as security or which belong to another, upon demand
  therefor and payment of necessary expenses thereof, shall issue  to  the
  pledgor  or  to  such owner of such shares a proxy to vote or take other
  action thereon.
    5. A stockholder shall not sell his vote or issue a proxy to  vote  to
  any  person  for  any  sum  of  money  or  anything  of value, except as
  authorized in this section and section six thousand twenty.
    6. A proxy which is entitled "irrevocable proxy" and which states that
  it is irrevocable, is  irrevocable  when  it  is  held  by  any  of  the
  following or a nominee of any of the following:
    (a) A pledgee;
    (b) A person who has purchased or agreed to purchase the shares.
    7.  Notwithstanding  a  provision  in  a  proxy,  stating  that  it is
  irrevocable, the proxy becomes revocable after the pledge  is  redeemed.
  This paragraph does not affect the duration of a proxy under subdivision
  two.
    8.  A  proxy  may  be  revoked,  notwithstanding a provision making it
  irrevocable, by a purchaser of shares without knowledge of the existence
  of  the  provision  unless  the  existence  of   the   proxy   and   its
  irrevocability  is  noted  conspicuously  on  the  face  or  back of the
  certificate representing such shares.
    9. No director, officer, clerk, teller or bookkeeper of a  corporation
  shall act as proxy at any meeting of such corporation.


::: 600:merger_when_authorized.html
 
    &#167; 600.  Merger;  when  authorized.  The  following  mergers are hereby
  authorized:
    (1) One or more corporations organized under the laws  of  this  state
  and  subject  to the provisions of article three, article eight, article
  eleven or article  twelve  of  this  chapter  with  another  corporation
  subject to the provisions of the same article.
    (2) One or more mutual savings banks with another mutual savings bank.
    (3)  One  or  more  mutual  savings and loan associations with another
  mutual savings and loan association.
    (4) One or more mutual savings and loan associations with one or  more
  mutual savings banks.
    (5) One or more safe deposit companies with a bank or trust company.
    (6)  One  or  more banks, trust companies, stock-form savings banks or
  stock-form savings and loan associations, with one or more  out-of-state
  banks  or  out-of-state  trust  companies  as  such terms are defined in
  section two hundred twenty-two of this chapter.
    (7) One or more subsidiaries or affiliates of a bank,  trust  company,
  savings  bank  or  savings  and  loan association, which are not a bank,
  trust company, savings bank or savings and loan  association,  as  those
  terms  are  defined in section two of this chapter, with the bank, trust
  company, savings bank or savings and loan association of which it  is  a
  subsidiary  or  affiliate,  as  the superintendent of financial services
  shall approve and enter on its records; provided, however, that  nothing
  in  this subdivision shall be deemed to authorize a bank, trust company,
  savings bank or savings and loan association to exercise  any  power  or
  engage in any activity that it may not exercise or engage in pursuant to
  this  chapter.  The  superintendent of financial services may promulgate
  such regulations as it deems  necessary  and  proper  to  implement  and
  define  the  provisions of this subdivision. Nothing in this subdivision
  shall alter, affect or impair any regulation or resolution  adopted,  or
  that  may  be  adopted,  by  the  superintendent  of financial services,
  pursuant to section twelve-a or former sections fourteen-g or fourteen-h
  of this chapter.
    (8) Such other mergers between and among banking institutions  as  the
  superintendent  of  financial services may authorize. The superintendent
  may promulgate such regulations as he or she deems necessary and  proper
  to implement and define the provisions of this paragraph.


::: 601-a:purchase_of_assets.html
 
    &#167; 601-a.  Purchase of assets. 1. The following acquisitions are hereby
  authorized whether by purchase or otherwise, other than  by  merger,  of
  all or a substantial part of the assets of:
    (a)  One  or  more corporations organized under the laws of this state
  and subject to the provisions of article three, article eight or article
  twelve of this chapter by another corporation subject to the  provisions
  of the same article.
    (b) One or more safe deposit companies by a bank or trust company.
    (c) One or more mutual savings banks by another mutual savings bank.
    (d) One or more mutual savings and loan associations by another mutual
  savings and loan association.
    (e) One or more stock-form savings banks by another stock-form savings
  bank.
    (f)  One  or  more stock-form savings and loan associations by another
  stock-form savings and loan association.
    (g) One or more banks, trust companies, stock-form  savings  banks  or
  stock-form  savings and loan associations, with one or more out-of-state
  banks or out-of-state trust companies  as  such  terms  are  defined  in
  section two hundred twenty-two of this chapter.
    (h) One or more banking institutions by another banking institution as
  the  superintendent  may  authorize.  For  purposes of this paragraph, a
  branch or agency of a foreign banking corporation licensed  pursuant  to
  article  two  of  this  chapter  and  seeking approval for a transfer of
  fiduciary relationships pursuant to section six hundred four-a  of  this
  chapter  shall  be  considered a banking institution. The superintendent
  may promulgate such regulations as he or she deems necessary and  proper
  to implement and define the provisions of this paragraph.
    2.  A written plan providing for the acquisition by one corporation of
  the  assets  of  another  shall  be  submitted,  in  duplicate,  to  the
  superintendent  by  both  corporations.  Such  plan  shall  be  in  form
  satisfactory to the superintendent, shall specify the  selling  and  the
  acquiring  corporation,  and shall prescribe the terms and conditions of
  the acquisition and the mode of carrying it into effect.
    At the time of submission for action  by  the  superintendent  of  the
  written   plan  of  acquisition  of  assets,  an  investigation  fee  as
  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be  paid
  to  the  superintendent;  provided,  however,  that no investigation fee
  shall be payable under this subdivision with respect to  an  acquisition
  to which subdivision two of section six hundred one-b of this article is
  applicable.
    3.  There shall also be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent
  with the plan of acquisition of assets, a certificate of the  president,
  secretary  or  cashier  of the selling corporation and, in the event the
  assets of the selling corporation shall exceed ten  per  centum  of  the
  assets  of  the  acquiring  corporation,  of  the acquiring corporation,
  certifying that such plan has been approved by the board of directors of
  his corporation by a majority vote of all the members thereof, and  that
  such   plan  was  thereafter  submitted  to  the  stockholders  of  such
  corporation at a meeting thereof held upon notice of  at  least  fifteen
  days,  specifying  the  time,  place,  and  object  of  such meeting and
  addressed to each stockholder at the address appearing upon the books of
  the corporation and published at least once a week  for  two  successive
  weeks  in  one newspaper in each county in which the selling corporation
  and, if applicable, the acquiring corporation has its principal place of
  business and that such plan has been approved at  such  meeting  by  the
  vote  of  the  stockholders  owning at least two-thirds in amount of the
  stock of such corporation.
    5. Nothing contained in this section six hundred and  one-a  shall  be
  construed  to  prohibit  any other purchase of assets which is otherwise
  permitted by applicable law.


::: 601-b:approval_or_disapproval_of_merger_or_purchase_of_assets.html
 
    &#167; 601-b.  Approval  or disapproval of merger or purchase of assets. 1.
  The superintendent shall approve or disapprove of a proposed  merger  as
  authorized  by  section  six  hundred  of  this  chapter  or  a proposed
  acquisition of all or a substantial part of the assets  of  any  banking
  organization as authorized by section six hundred one-a of this chapter,
  as  the case may be, within one hundred twenty days after the submission
  of the proposed plan thereof  to  him.  In  determining  whether  to  so
  approve,  the  superintendent  shall  take  into  consideration  (i) the
  declaration of policy contained in section ten  of  this  chapter,  (ii)
  whether  the  effect  of  such  merger or acquisition shall be either to
  expand the size or extent of  the  resulting  or  acquiring  institution
  beyond  limits  consistent  with  adequate  and  sound  banking  and the
  preservation thereof or result  in  a  concentration  of  assets  beyond
  limits  consistent with effective competition, (iii) whether such merger
  or acquisition may result in such a lessening of competition  as  to  be
  injurious  to  the  interests  of the public or tend toward monopoly and
  (iv) primarily, the  public  interest  and  the  needs  and  convenience
  thereof.  If  the  superintendent  shall approve such proposed merger or
  acquisition, he shall file the plan, together with such certificates and
  the original of the approval of the superintendent, in the office of the
  superintendent, and, in the case of merger, a  duplicate  of  the  plan,
  together  with  a duplicate of each of such certificates and a duplicate
  of the superintendent's approval, shall be filed in the  office  of  the
  clerk  of  the  county  in  which  the principal office of the receiving
  corporation  is  located.  Upon  such  filing  in  the  office  of   the
  superintendent, the merger or acquisition shall become effective, unless
  a  later  date  is  specified  in the plan, in which event the merger or
  acquisition shall become effective upon such later date.


::: 601-c:sale_lease_exchange_or_other_disposition_of_property_rights_privileges_and_franchises.html
 
    &#167; 601-c.  Sale,  lease,  exchange  or  other  disposition of property,
  rights, privileges and franchises. 1. Subject to  subdivision  eight  of
  section  six  hundred  five  of  this  chapter,  and except as otherwise
  provided by law or by its organization certificate or other  certificate
  filed  pursuant  to  law, a corporation organized under the laws of this
  state and subject to the  provisions  of  article  three,  article  six,
  article  eight,  article  ten  or  article  twelve  of  this chapter may
  voluntarily sell, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of its  property,
  rights,  privileges  and franchises, or any interest therein or any part
  thereof; provided, however, that if such sale, lease, exchange or  other
  disposition  is  not  made  in  the  regular  course  of business of the
  corporation and involves all  or  substantially  all  of  its  property,
  rights, privileges and franchises, or an integral part thereof essential
  to  the  conduct  of  the business of the corporation, such sale, lease,
  exchange or other disposition shall be  authorized  only  in  accordance
  with the following procedure:
    (a)  In the case of a corporation subject to the provisions of article
  three,  article  eight,  article  twelve   or   a   stock-form   banking
  organization  subject  to  either  article  six  or  article ten of this
  chapter, the board of directors of the corporation by a majority vote of
  all the members thereof shall approve the proposed sale, lease, exchange
  or  other  disposition  and  direct  its  submission  to   a   vote   of
  stockholders.
    Notice  of  meeting  shall  be  given  to  each stockholder of record,
  whether or not entitled to vote.
    The stockholders shall authorize such sale, lease, exchange  or  other
  disposition and may fix, or may authorize the board of directors to fix,
  any  of  the  terms  and  conditions thereof and the consideration to be
  received by the corporation therefor, which may consist in whole  or  in
  part  of  cash  or  other  property, real or personal, including shares,
  bonds or other securities of any other domestic or  foreign  corporation
  or  corporations, by vote at a meeting of stockholders of the holders of
  two-thirds of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
    (b) In the case of a mutual corporation subject to the  provisions  of
  article six of this chapter, the board of trustees of the corporation by
  a  vote  of  a  majority  of  all  the members thereof shall approve and
  authorize the proposed sale, lease, exchange or  other  disposition  and
  shall  fix any of the terms and conditions thereof and the consideration
  to be received by the corporation therefor, which may consist  in  whole
  or  in  part of cash or other property, real or personal, including such
  shares, bonds or other securities  of  any  other  domestic  or  foreign
  corporation  or  corporations  as are authorized investments for savings
  banks, subject to those limitations applicable to such investments.
    A verified copy of the minutes of the meeting at which  the  board  of
  trustees approves and authorizes the proposed transaction shall be filed
  in  the  office  of  the  superintendent  together  with  a  copy of the
  agreement governing the proposed transaction, a statement setting  forth
  the  reasons  why the trustees believe the proposed transaction would be
  in the best interest of the savings bank, its depositors and the  public
  and  such  other  information  as  the  superintendent  may  require. In
  determining whether or not to  approve  the  proposed  transaction,  the
  superintendent  shall consider whether the proposed transaction would be
  in the best interests of the savings bank, its depositors and the public
  and such other information as the superintendent may  deem  appropriate.
  The  superintendent shall notify the board of trustees in writing of his
  or her determination. If the superintendent disapproves,  the  board  of
  trustees shall abandon the proposed transaction.
    (c)  In  the case of a mutual corporation subject to the provisions of
  article ten of this chapter, the board of directors of  the  corporation
  by a majority vote of all the members thereof shall approve the proposed
  sale,  lease, exchange or other disposition and direct its submission to
  a vote of shareholders.
    Notice of meeting shall be given to each shareholder.
    The  shareholders  shall authorize such sale, lease, exchange or other
  disposition and may fix, or may authorize the board of directors to fix,
  any of the terms and conditions thereof  and  the  consideration  to  be
  received  by  the corporation therefor, which may consist in whole or in
  part of cash or other property, real or personal, including such shares,
  bonds or other securities of any other domestic or  foreign  corporation
  or  corporations  as  are  authorized  investments  for savings and loan
  associations,  subject  to  those   limitations   applicable   to   such
  investments,  by  vote  at  a  meeting of shareholders of the holders of
  two-thirds in amount  of  the  book  value  of  all  outstanding  shares
  entitled to vote thereon.
    A  verified  copy of the minutes of the meetings at which the board of
  directors  and  shareholders  approve   and   authorize   the   proposed
  transaction  shall be filed in the office of the superintendent together
  with a copy of the  agreement  governing  the  proposed  transaction,  a
  statement  setting  forth  the  reasons  why  the  directors believe the
  proposed transaction would be in the best interest of  the  savings  and
  loan  association,  its  shareholders  and  the  public  and  such other
  information as the superintendent may require. In determining whether or
  not to  approve  the  proposed  transaction,  the  superintendent  shall
  consider whether the proposed transaction would be in the best interests
  of  the  savings  and loan association, its shareholders and the public.
  The superintendent shall notify the board of directors in writing of his
  or her determination. If the superintendent disapproves,  the  board  of
  directors shall abandon the proposed transaction.
    2. Notwithstanding stockholder or shareholder authorization, the board
  may  abandon  the  proposed  sale,  lease, exchange or other disposition
  without further action by the stockholders or shareholders,  subject  to
  the  rights,  if  any,  of  third  parties  under  any contract relating
  thereto.
    3. This section shall not be applicable to a sale  or  disposition  of
  assets  the  acquisition  of  which is authorized by section six hundred
  one-a of this chapter, or to any sale or  other  disposition  of  assets
  after  the entry of an order pursuant to subdivision four of section six
  hundred five of this chapter, or to a sale  or  disposition  of  all  or
  substantially  all  of the assets by a mutual corporation subject to the
  provisions of article six or article ten of this chapter to  a  national
  banking association or national banking associations or a corporation or
  corporations  subject  to the provisions of article three, article eight
  or article twelve of this chapter or to a stock-form corporation subject
  to article six or article ten of this chapter or to a stock-form federal
  savings bank or to a stock-form federal savings and loan association.


::: 6010:selection_of_inspectors_at_stockholders_meetings.html
 
    &#167; 6010.  Selection  of  inspectors at stockholders' meetings.   Unless
  otherwise provided  in  the  by-laws,  the  board,  in  advance  of  any
  stockholders'  meeting, may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the
  meeting or any adjournment thereof. If inspectors are not so  appointed,
  the  person presiding at a stockholders' meeting may, and on the request
  of any stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall, appoint one  or  more
  inspectors.  In  case  any  person appointed fails to appear or act, the
  vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the board in advance of the
  meeting or  at  the  meeting  by  the  person  presiding  thereat.  Each
  inspector,  before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take
  and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector  at  such
  meeting  with  strict  impartiality  and  according  to  the best of his
  ability. No director or officer of the corporation shall be eligible  to
  act as an inspector of an election of directors of such corporation.


::: 6011:duties_of_inspectors_at_stockholders_meetings.html
 
    &#167; 6011. Duties of inspectors at stockholders' meetings. The inspectors
  shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of
  each,  the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum,
  the validity and effect of proxies, and shall receive votes, ballots  or
  consents,  hear  and  determine  all challenges and questions arising in
  connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, ballots
  or consents, determine the result, and do such acts  as  are  proper  to
  conduct  the  election  or  vote  with  fairness to all stockholders. On
  request of the person  presiding  at  the  meeting  or  any  stockholder
  entitled  to vote thereat, the inspectors shall make a report in writing
  of any challenge, question or matter determined by them  and  execute  a
  certificate of any fact found by them. Any report or certificate made by
  them  shall  be prima facie evidence of the facts stated and of the vote
  as certified by them. Each inspector shall be entitled to  a  reasonable
  compensation for his services, to be paid by the corporation.


::: 6012:qualification_of_voters.html
 
    &#167; 6012.  Qualification of voters. 1. Every stockholder of record shall
  be entitled at every meeting of stockholders to one vote for every share
  standing in his name on the record  of  stockholders,  unless  otherwise
  provided in the organization certificate.
    2.  Treasury shares and shares held by another corporation of any type
  or kind, whether or not formed  under  any  law  of  this  state,  if  a
  majority  of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of
  such other corporation is beneficially owned by the  corporation,  shall
  not be shares entitled to vote or to be counted in determining the total
  number of outstanding shares.
    3.  Shares  held by an administrator, executor, guardian, conservator,
  committee, or other fiduciary, except a trustee, may be  voted  by  him,
  either  in  person or by proxy, without transfer of such shares into his
  name. Shares held by a trustee may be voted by him, either in person  or
  by  proxy,  only after the shares have been transferred into his name as
  trustee or into the name of his nominee. Shares of its own stock held by
  a trust company as sole trustee, whether registered in its own  name  as
  such  trustee  or  in the name of its nominee, shall not be voted by the
  registered owner in the election of directors unless under the terms  of
  the  trust  the  manner  in  which  such  shares  shall  be voted may be
  determined by a donor or beneficiary of the trust and unless such  donor
  or  beneficiary  actually  directs  how  such shares shall be voted, and
  shares of its own stock held by a trust company and one or more  persons
  as  trustees  may be voted by such other person or persons, as trustees,
  in the same manner as if he or they were the sole trustee.
    4. Shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be  voted  by
  him  without the transfer thereof into his name if authority so to do is
  contained in an order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
    5. A stockholder whose shares are pledged shall be  entitled  to  vote
  such  shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the
  pledgee, or a nominee of the pledgee.
    6. Redeemable shares which have been called for redemption  shall  not
  be  deemed  to  be  outstanding  shares  for  the  purpose  of voting or
  determining the total number of shares entitled to vote on any matter on
  and after the date on which written notice of redemption has  been  sent
  to  holders  thereof and a sum sufficient to redeem such shares has been
  deposited with a bank or trust company with irrevocable instruction  and
  authority  to pay the redemption price to the holders of the shares upon
  surrender of certificates therefor.
    7. Shares standing in the name of another corporation of any  type  or
  kind, whether or not formed under any law of this state, may be voted by
  such  officer,  agent  or  proxy  as the by-laws of such corporation may
  provide, or, in the absence of such provision,  as  the  board  of  such
  corporation may determine.
    8.  When  shares  are  registered  on  the record of stockholders of a
  corporation in the name of, or have passed by operation  of  law  or  by
  virtue  of  any  deed  of  trust  or  other  instrument  to  two or more
  fiduciaries, and dispute arises among them in respect to voting thereon,
  such shares may be voted by a majority of such fiduciaries, and in  such
  manner  and  for  such purpose as such majority shall direct, and if the
  fiduciaries shall be equally divided as to voting such shares, any court
  having jurisdiction of their accounts, upon  petition  by  any  of  such
  fiduciaries  or  by any party in interest, may direct the voting of such
  shares for the best interest  of  the  beneficiaries.  This  subdivision
  shall  not  apply in any case where the instrument or order of the court
  appointing such fiduciaries shall otherwise direct how such shares shall
  be voted. Nor shall this subdivision apply to any fiduciaries  appointed
  by  a  court  prior  to May sixth, nineteen hundred eighteen, or by last
  will and testament of a decedent, whose death  occurred  prior  to  such
  date,  or  by deed of trust or other instrument made prior to May first,
  nineteen hundred fifty-six, nor to shares at any time transferred to  or
  held by fiduciaries so appointed.
    9.  Notwithstanding the foregoing subdivisions, a corporation shall be
  protected in treating the persons in whose names  shares  stand  on  the
  record of stockholders as the owners thereof for all purposes.


::: 6013:limitations_on_right_to_vote.html
 
    &#167; 6013. Limitations on right to vote. The organization certificate may
  provide,  except  as  limited  by  section  five  thousand  one,  either
  absolutely or conditionally, that the holders of any designated class or
  series of shares shall not be entitled to  vote,  or  it  may  otherwise
  limit  or  define the respective voting powers of the several classes or
  series of shares, and, except as otherwise  provided  in  this  chapter,
  such  provisions  of  such certificate shall prevail, according to their
  tenor, in all elections and in all proceedings, over the  provisions  of
  this chapter which authorize any action by the stockholders.


::: 6014:vote_of_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 6014.  Vote of stockholders. 1. Directors shall, except as otherwise
  required by this article or by the organization certificate as permitted
  by this article, be elected by a  plurality  of  the  votes  cast  at  a
  meeting of stockholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the
  election.
    2.   Whenever  any  corporate  action,  other  than  the  election  of
  directors,  is  to  be  taken  under  this  chapter  by  vote   of   the
  stockholders,  it shall, except as otherwise required by this chapter or
  by the  organization  certificate  as  permitted  by  this  article,  be
  authorized  by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders
  by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.


::: 6015:written_consent_of_stockholders_subscribers_or_incorporators_without_a_meeting.html
 
    &#167; 6015.  Written consent of stockholders, subscribers or incorporators
  without a meeting. 1.  Whenever  under  this  chapter  stockholders  are
  required  or  permitted  to  take any action by vote, such action may be
  taken without a meeting on written consent, setting forth the action  so
  taken,  signed by the holders of all outstanding shares entitled to vote
  thereon. This subdivision shall not be construed to alter or modify  the
  provisions   of   any  section  or  any  provision  in  an  organization
  certificate not inconsistent with this chapter under which  the  written
  consent of the holders of less than all outstanding shares is sufficient
  for corporate action.
    2. Written consent thus given by the holders of all outstanding shares
  entitled  to  vote  shall  have  the  same effect as a unanimous vote of
  stockholders and any certificate with respect to  the  authorization  or
  taking of any such action which is to be delivered to the superintendent
  shall recite that the authorization was by unanimous written consent.
    3.  When there are no stockholders of record, such action may be taken
  on the  written  consent  signed  by  a  majority  in  interest  of  the
  subscribers  for  shares whose subscriptions have been accepted or their
  successors in interest or, if no subscription has been accepted, on  the
  written  consent  signed  by  a  majority  of  the incorporators. If any
  incorporator dies or is for any reason  unable  to  act,  the  other  or
  others  may act. If there is no incorporator able to act, any person for
  whom an incorporator was acting as agent may act in  his  stead,  or  if
  such  other  person  also  dies  or is for any reason unable to act, his
  legal representative may act.


::: 6016:greater_requirement_as_to_quorum_and_vote_of_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 6016.  Greater requirement as to quorum and vote of stockholders. 1.
  The organization certificate may contain provisions specifying either or
  both of the following:
    (a) That the proportion of shares, or the proportion of shares of  any
  class or series thereof, the holders of which shall be present in person
  or  by  proxy  at  any  meeting of stockholders in order to constitute a
  quorum for the transaction of any business or of any specified  item  of
  business, including amendments to the organization certificate, shall be
  greater than the proportion prescribed by this chapter in the absence of
  such provision.
    (b)  That  the proportion of votes of the holders of shares, or of the
  holders of shares  of  any  class  or  series  thereof,  that  shall  be
  necessary  at  any  meeting  of  stockholders for the transaction of any
  business or of any specified item of business, including  amendments  to
  the  organization  certificate,  shall  be  greater  than the proportion
  prescribed by this chapter in the absence of such provision.
    2. An amendment of the organization certificate which adds a provision
  permitted by this section  or  which  changes  or  strikes  out  such  a
  provision,  shall  be authorized at a meeting of stockholders by vote of
  the holders of two-thirds of all outstanding  shares  entitled  to  vote
  thereon,  or  of such greater proportion of shares or class or series of
  shares, as may be provided specifically in the organization  certificate
  for  adding,  changing  or  striking  out  a provision permitted by this
  section.
    3. If the organization  certificate  of  any  corporation  contains  a
  provision  authorized  by  this section, the existence of such provision
  shall be noted conspicuously on the face or back  of  every  certificate
  for shares issued by such corporation.


::: 6017:voting_by_class_or_classes_of_shares.html
 
    &#167; 6017.  Voting  by  class  or  classes of shares. 1. The organization
  certificate may contain provisions specifying that any class or  classes
  of  shares  or of any series thereof shall vote as a class in connection
  with the transaction of  any  business  or  of  any  specified  item  of
  business  at  a  meeting  of  stockholders,  including amendments to the
  organization certificate.
    2.  Where  voting  as  a  class  is  provided  in   the   organization
  certificate, it shall be by the proportionate vote so provided or, if no
  proportionate  vote  is  provided,  in  the  election of directors, by a
  plurality of the votes cast at such meeting by the holders of shares  of
  such  class entitled to vote in the election, or for any other corporate
  action, by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting by  the  holders
  of shares of such class entitled to vote thereon.
    3.  Such  voting  by  class  shall  be  in addition to any other vote,
  including  vote  by  class,  required  by  this  chapter  and   by   the
  organization certificate as permitted by this article.


::: 6018:cumulative_voting.html
 
    &#167; 6018.   Cumulative  voting.  The  organization  certificate  of  any
  corporation may provide that in  all  elections  of  directors  of  such
  corporation each stockholder shall be entitled to as many votes as shall
  equal  the  number  of  votes  which,  except  for such provisions as to
  cumulative voting, he would be entitled to  cast  for  the  election  of
  directors  with  respect  to  his  shares  multiplied  by  the number of
  directors to be elected, and that he may cast all of such  votes  for  a
  single director or may distribute them among the number to be voted for,
  or  any  two  or  more  of  them,  as  he may see fit, which right, when
  exercised, shall be termed cumulative voting.


::: 6019:powers_of_supreme_court_respecting_elections.html
 
    &#167; 6019.  Powers  of  supreme  court  respecting  elections.  Upon  the
  petition of any stockholder aggrieved by an election, and upon notice to
  the persons declared elected thereat, the  corporation  and  such  other
  persons  as  the  court  may direct, the supreme court at a special term
  held within the judicial district where the office of the corporation is
  located shall forthwith hear the proofs and allegations of the  parties,
  and  confirm  the  election,  order  a  new election, or take such other
  action as justice may require.


::: 601:merger_agreement_authorization_approval_filing.html
 
    &#167; 601. Merger agreement; authorization; approval; filing. 1. A written
  plan  of  merger shall be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent
  by the corporations which are to merge.  Such  plan  shall  be  in  form
  satisfactory to the superintendent, shall specify each corporation to be
  merged  and  the corporation which is to receive into itself the merging
  corporation  or  corporations,  and  shall  prescribe  the   terms   and
  conditions  of  the merger and the mode of carrying it into effect. Such
  plan may provide the name to be borne by the receiving  corporation  and
  such  name  may  be the name of any corporation which is a party to such
  plan or a new name. Such plan  may  also  name  the  persons  who  shall
  constitute   the  board  of  directors  or  trustees  of  the  receiving
  corporation after the merger shall have been accomplished, provided that
  the number and qualifications of such persons  shall  be  in  accordance
  with  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  relating  to  the  number  and
  qualifications of directors or trustees of such a  corporation;  or,  in
  the  case  of stock corporations, such plan may provide for a meeting of
  the stockholders to elect a board of directors within sixty  days  after
  such  merger,  and  may make provision for conducting the affairs of the
  corporation meanwhile. In the case of savings banks, such plan may  also
  provide  that the place or places of business of the merging bank may be
  maintained as an office or offices of the receiving bank as provided  in
  paragraph  (c)  of  subdivision two of section two hundred forty of this
  chapter.
    At the time of submission for action  by  the  superintendent  of  the
  written  plan  of merger, an investigation fee as prescribed pursuant to
  section eighteen-a of this chapter shall be paid to the superintendent.
    2. In the case of stock corporations, there  shall  be  submitted,  in
  duplicate,  to the superintendent with the plan of merger, a certificate
  of the president, secretary or cashier of each of the corporations which
  are to merge, certifying that such plan has been approved by  the  board
  of  directors  of  his corporation by a majority vote of all the members
  thereof, and that such plan was thereafter submitted to the stockholders
  of such corporation at a meeting thereof held upon notice  of  at  least
  fifteen  days, specifying the time, place and object of such meeting and
  addressed to each stockholder at the address appearing upon the books of
  the corporation and published at least once a week  for  two  successive
  weeks  in  one  newspaper  in  each  county  in which any of the merging
  corporations has its principal place of business and that such plan  has
  been  approved at such meeting by the vote of the stockholders owning at
  least two-thirds in amount of the stock of such corporation, except that
  such certificate of the president, secretary or cashier of the receiving
  corporation need not certify that such plan was submitted to or approved
  by vote of the stockholders of such corporation if (a) the total  assets
  of  the merging corporation or corporations do not exceed ten per centum
  of the total assets of the receiving corporation and  (b)  the  plan  of
  merger  does  not  change  the  name or the authorized shares of capital
  stock of the receiving corporation or make or require any  other  change
  or  amendment  for  which the approval or consent of stockholders of the
  receiving corporation would be required under provisions  of  law  other
  than this section.
    3.  In  the  case  of  mutual  savings  banks, mutual savings and loan
  associations or credit unions, there shall be submitted,  in  duplicate,
  to  the  superintendent  with  the  plan of merger, a certificate of the
  president, secretary or cashier of each of the corporations which are to
  merge, certifying that such plan has been submitted to a special meeting
  of the board of trustees or directors of his corporation, that a  notice
  of  at  least fifteen days, specifying the time, place and object of the
  meeting, together with a copy of  the  plan  has  been  mailed  to  each
  trustee or director and that such plan has been approved at such meeting
  by  a vote of two-thirds of all the members of such board of trustees or
  directors.
    4.  In  the  case  of  merger of a safe deposit company into a bank or
  trust company  which  owns  at  least  ninety-five  per  centum  of  the
  outstanding  shares  of  each  class  of  the stock of such safe deposit
  company, in lieu of compliance with subdivisions one  and  two  of  this
  section  there  may  be submitted, in duplicate, to the superintendent a
  written plan of  merger  in  form  satisfactory  to  the  superintendent
  stating  that such safe deposit company as the merging corporation is to
  be merged into such bank or trust company as the  receiving  corporation
  and  setting  forth any necessary or appropriate terms and conditions of
  the merger and provisions for carrying it into effect, including, if the
  receiving corporation does not own all  the  outstanding  stock  of  the
  merging  corporation,  provisions  with  respect  to  the  cash or other
  consideration to be paid or delivered to the stockholders of the merging
  corporation (other than  the  receiving  corporation)  upon  the  merger
  becoming  effective  and upon the surrender of their shares. There shall
  be submitted, in duplicate, to the  superintendent  with  such  plan  of
  merger,  a  certificate  of  the  president, secretary or cashier of the
  merging corporation and of the receiving  corporation,  certifying  that
  such plan has been approved by the board of directors of his corporation
  by  a  majority  vote of all the members thereof. The certificate of the
  president, secretary or cashier of the merging corporation shall certify
  the extent  of  the  ownership  by  the  receiving  corporation  of  the
  outstanding  capital  stock of the merging corporation. If the receiving
  corporation does not own  all  the  outstanding  stock  of  the  merging
  corporation,  the  certificate of the president, secretary or cashier of
  the merging corporation shall also certify that there has been mailed to
  each  of  its  stockholders  of  record  (other   than   the   receiving
  corporation),  at  the  address  appearing upon the books of the merging
  corporation, a copy of the plan of merger. Any  holder  of  a  share  or
  shares  of  stock  of the merging corporation not owned by the receiving
  corporation may, at any time prior to  the  expiration  of  twenty  days
  after  the  date of mailing of the plan of merger to the stockholders of
  the merging corporation, object to the merger and demand payment for his
  stock. Such objection and demand must be in writing and filed  with  the
  receiving  corporation.  Thereupon  such  stockholder  and the receiving
  corporation shall have the right to have such stock appraised  and  paid
  for  as  provided  in  section  six thousand twenty-two of this chapter,
  subject to the conditions and provisions of said section (other than the
  conditions and provisions of subdivisions one, two and  three  thereof);
  except that (a) the time within which the receiving corporation may mail
  to  such  stockholder a written offer accompanied by a balance sheet and
  profit and loss statement of the  merging  corporation  as  provided  in
  subdivision  seven  of  said  section shall expire thirty days after the
  merger takes effect, (b) all references in  subdivision  eight  of  said
  section to the stockholders' authorization date shall be deemed to refer
  to  the date of mailing of the plan of merger to the stockholders of the
  merging corporation, and (c) all  references  in  said  section  to  the
  notice  of election to dissent shall be deemed to refer to the demand of
  a stockholder of the merging corporation for payment of his stock.


::: 6020:agreements_as_to_voting.html
 
    &#167; 6020.  Agreements  as  to  voting.  An agreement between two or more
  stockholders, if in writing and  signed  by  the  parties  thereto,  may
  provide  that  in  exercising any voting rights, the shares held by them
  shall be voted as  therein  provided,  or  as  they  may  agree,  or  as
  determined in accordance with a procedure agreed upon by them.


::: 6021:preemptive_rights.html
 
    &#167; 6021. Preemptive rights. 1. As used in this section, the term:
    (a)  "Unlimited dividend rights" means the right without limitation as
  to amount either to all or to a share  of  the  balance  of  current  or
  liquidating  dividends  after  the  payment  of  dividends on any shares
  entitled to a preference.
    (b) "Equity  shares"  means  shares  of  any  class,  whether  or  not
  preferred  as  to  dividends  or  assets,  which have unlimited dividend
  rights.
    (c) "Voting rights" means the right to vote for the election of one or
  more directors, excluding a right so to vote which is dependent  on  the
  happening  of  an  event specified in the organization certificate which
  would change the voting rights of any class of shares.
    (d) "Voting shares" means  shares  of  any  class  which  have  voting
  rights.
    (e)  "Preemptive  right"  means  the right to purchase shares or other
  securities to be issued, as such right is defined in this section.
    (f) "New shares or securities" means new equity shares of any class or
  any shares or other securities convertible into  equity  shares  of  any
  class.
    2.  The  preemptive  rights  provided for in subdivision three of this
  section shall not apply to new shares or securities of  any  corporation
  whose  organization  certificate  is  approved on or after the effective
  date  of  this  subdivision,  unless  expressly  provided  for  in   the
  organization  certificate  of such corporation, which may incorporate by
  reference the preemptive rights set forth in this  section,  or  further
  modify such preemptive rights.
    3.  Except  as otherwise provided in the organization certificate, and
  except as provided in this section, in case of the proposed issuance  by
  the corporation of new shares or securities:
    (a)  if  the  issuance of the new shares or securities would adversely
  affect the unlimited dividend rights of the holders of  existing  equity
  shares  of  any  class,  such  holders  shall  have  the  right during a
  reasonable time and on reasonable conditions, both to be  fixed  by  the
  board,  to purchase such new shares or securities in such proportions as
  shall be determined as provided in this section; and
    (b) if such new shares or securities are voting shares  of  any  class
  and  the issuance of the new shares or securities would adversely affect
  the voting rights of the holders of existing shares of any  class,  such
  holders  shall have the right during a reasonable time and on reasonable
  conditions, both to be fixed by the board, to purchase such  new  shares
  or  other  securities  in  such  proportions  as  shall be determined as
  provided in this section.
    4. The preemptive right provided for  in  subdivision  three  of  this
  section  shall  entitle  stockholders having such rights to purchase the
  shares or  other  securities  to  be  offered  for  sale  as  nearly  as
  practicable  in such proportions as would, if such preemptive right were
  exercised, preserve the relative unlimited dividend  rights  and  voting
  rights  of such holders and at a price or prices not less favorable than
  the price or prices  at  which  such  shares  or  other  securities  are
  proposed  to  be  offered  for sale to others, without deduction of such
  reasonable expenses of and compensation for the  sale,  underwriting  or
  purchase  of  such shares or other securities by underwriters or dealers
  as may lawfully be paid by the corporation. In case each of  the  shares
  entitling  the  holders thereof to preemptive rights does not confer the
  same unlimited dividend right or voting right, the board shall apportion
  the shares or  other  securities  to  be  offered  for  sale  among  the
  stockholders   having   preemptive  rights  to  purchase  them  in  such
  proportions as in the opinion of the board  shall  preserve  as  far  as
  practicable  the relative unlimited dividend rights and voting rights of
  the holders at the time of such offering. The apportionment made by  the
  board  shall,  in the absence of fraud or bad faith, be binding upon all
  stockholders.
    5.  Unless  otherwise provided in the organization certificate, shares
  or other securities offered for sale shall not be subject to  preemptive
  rights under subdivisions two and three of this section if they:
    (a)  Are  to  be issued by the board to effect a merger or offered for
  consideration other than cash;
    (b) Are to be issued or subjected to options under section one hundred
  forty-a of this chapter;
    (c) Are to be issued to satisfy conversion rights theretofore  granted
  by the corporation;
    (d) Are treasury shares; or
    (e)  Are  part  of  the  shares or other securities of the corporation
  authorized in its original organization certificate and are issued, sold
  or optioned within two years from the date of filing such certificate.
    6. Stockholders of record entitled to preemptive rights on the  record
  date  fixed  by  the  board  under  section six thousand four, or, if no
  record date is fixed, then on the record date determined  under  section
  six  thousand four, and no others shall be entitled to the right defined
  in this section.
    7. The board shall cause to be given to each stockholder  entitled  to
  purchase  shares  or other securities in accordance with this section, a
  notice directed to him in the manner provided in  section  six  thousand
  five  setting  forth  the time within which and the terms and conditions
  upon which the stockholder may purchase such shares or other  securities
  and  also  the  apportionment  made  of  the right to purchase among the
  stockholders entitled to preemptive rights. Such notice shall  be  given
  personally  or  by mail at least fifteen days prior to the expiration of
  the period  during  which  the  stockholder  shall  have  the  right  to
  purchase.  All stockholders entitled to preemptive rights to whom notice
  shall have been given as aforesaid shall be deemed conclusively to  have
  had a reasonable time in which to exercise their preemptive rights.
    8.  Shares or other securities which have been offered to stockholders
  having preemptive rights to purchase and which have not  been  purchased
  by  them within the time fixed by the board may thereafter, for a period
  of not exceeding one year following the expiration of  the  time  during
  which  stockholders  might  have  exercised  such  preemptive rights, be
  issued or sold to any other  person  or  persons  at  a  price,  without
  deduction  of such reasonable expenses of and compensation for the sale,
  underwriting or purchase of such shares by underwriters  or  dealers  as
  may  lawfully  be  paid  by the corporation, not less than that at which
  they were offered  to  such  stockholders.  Any  such  shares  or  other
  securities  not  so issued or sold to others during such one year period
  shall  thereafter  again  be  subject  to  the  preemptive   rights   of
  stockholders.
    9.  Except  as  otherwise provided in the organization certificate and
  except as provided in this section, no holder of any shares of any class
  shall as such holder have any preemptive right  to  purchase  any  other
  shares  or  securities  of  any  class  which at any time may be sold or
  offered for sale by the corporation.


::: 6022:procedure_to_enforce_stockholders_right_to_receive_payment_for_shares.html
 
    &#167; 6022.  Procedure  to  enforce stockholder's right to receive payment
  for shares. 1. A stockholder intending to  enforce  his  right  under  a
  section  of  this  chapter  to  receive  payment  for  his shares if the
  proposed corporate action referred to therein is taken shall  file  with
  the  corporation, before the meeting of stockholders at which the action
  is submitted to a vote, or at such meeting but before the vote,  written
  objection to the action. The objection shall include a statement that he
  intends  to  demand  payment for his shares if the action is taken. Such
  objection is not required from any stockholder to whom  the  corporation
  did  not  give notice of such meeting in accordance with this chapter or
  where  the  proposed  action  is  authorized  by  written   consent   of
  stockholders without a meeting.
    2.  Within  ten days after the stockholders' authorization date, which
  term as used in this section means the date on which  the  stockholders'
  vote  authorizing  such  action  was  taken,  or  the date on which such
  consent without a meeting was obtained from the requisite  stockholders,
  the  corporation  shall  give  written  notice  of such authorization or
  consent by  registered  mail  to  each  stockholder  who  filed  written
  objection or from whom written objection was not required, excepting any
  who voted for or consented in writing to the proposed action.
    3.  Within  twenty  days  after  the  giving  of  notice  to  him, any
  stockholder to whom the corporation was required to give such notice and
  who elects to dissent shall file with the corporation a  written  notice
  of such election, stating his name and residence address, the number and
  classes  of  shares  as to which he dissents and a demand for payment of
  the fair value of his shares.
    4. A stockholder may not dissent as to less than all  of  the  shares,
  held by him of record, that he owns beneficially. A nominee or fiduciary
  may not dissent on behalf of any beneficial owner as to less than all of
  the shares of such owner held of record by such nominee or fiduciary.
    5.  Upon filing a notice of election to dissent, the stockholder shall
  cease to have any of the rights of a stockholder except the right to  be
  paid  the  fair  value  of  his  shares  and any other rights under this
  section.  Withdrawal of a notice of election shall require  the  written
  consent of the corporation. If a notice of election is withdrawn, or the
  proposed  corporate  action  is abandoned or rescinded, or a court shall
  determine that the stockholder is not entitled to  receive  payment  for
  his  shares,  or  the  stockholder  shall otherwise lose his dissenter's
  rights, he shall not have the right to receive payment  for  his  shares
  and  he shall be reinstated to all his rights as a stockholder as of the
  filing of his notice of election, including any  intervening  preemptive
  rights  and  the  right  to payment of any intervening dividend or other
  distribution or, if any such rights have expired or any such dividend or
  distribution other than in cash has been completed, in lieu thereof,  at
  the  election  of  the  corporation,  the  fair value thereof in cash as
  determined by the board as of the time of such expiration or completion,
  but without prejudice otherwise to any corporate  proceedings  that  may
  have been taken in the interim.
    6.  At  the time of filing the notice of election to dissent or within
  one month thereafter  the  stockholder  shall  submit  the  certificates
  representing  his  shares  to the corporation, or to its transfer agent,
  which shall forthwith  note  conspicuously  thereon  that  a  notice  of
  election  has  been  filed  and  shall  return  the  certificates to the
  stockholder or other person  who  submitted  them  on  his  behalf.  Any
  stockholder  who  fails  to submit his certificates for such notation as
  herein specified shall, at the option of the  corporation  exercised  by
  written  notice to him within forty-five days from the date of filing of
  such notice of election to dissent, lose his dissenter's rights unless a
  court, for good cause shown, shall otherwise direct. Upon transfer of  a
  certificate  bearing such notation, each new certificate issued therefor
  shall bear a similar notation together with the  name  of  the  original
  dissenting holder of the shares and a transferee shall acquire no rights
  in   the   corporation   except  those  which  the  original  dissenting
  stockholder had after filing his notice of election.
    7. Within seven days after the expiration of the period  within  which
  stockholders  may  file  their notices of election to dissent, or within
  seven days after the proposed corporate action is consummated, whichever
  is later, the corporation or, in the case of  a  merger,  the  receiving
  corporation,  shall  make  a  written  offer  by registered mail to each
  stockholder who has filed such notice of election to pay for his  shares
  at  a  specified  price which the corporation considers to be their fair
  value. Such offer shall be made at the  same  price  per  share  to  all
  dissenting stockholders of the same class, or if divided into series, of
  the  same  series  and  shall  be  accompanied by a balance sheet of the
  corporation whose shares the dissenting  stockholder  holds  as  of  the
  latest  available  date,  which  shall not be earlier than twelve months
  before the making of such offer, and a  profit  and  loss  statement  or
  statements  for not less than a twelve month period ended on the date of
  such  balance  sheet  or,  if  the  corporation  was  not  in  existence
  throughout  such  twelve  month  period,  for the portion thereof during
  which it was in existence.  If within thirty days after  the  making  of
  such  offer,  the corporation making the offer and any stockholder agree
  upon the price to be paid for his shares, payment therefor shall be made
  within sixty days after the making of such offer upon the  surrender  of
  the certificates representing such shares.
    8.  The  following  procedure  shall apply if the corporation fails to
  make such offer within such period of seven days, or  if  it  makes  the
  offer  and any dissenting stockholder or stockholders fail to agree with
  it within the period of thirty days thereafter upon the price to be paid
  for their shares:
    (a) The corporation or,  in  the  case  of  a  merger,  the  receiving
  corporation  shall, within twenty days after the expiration of whichever
  is applicable of the two periods last  mentioned,  institute  a  special
  proceeding  in  the  supreme court in the judicial district in which the
  office of  the  corporation  is  located  to  determine  the  rights  of
  dissenting stockholders and to fix the fair value of their shares.
    (b)  If the corporation fails to institute such proceeding within such
  period of twenty days, any dissenting  stockholder  may  institute  such
  proceeding  for  the  same  purpose not later than thirty days after the
  expiration of  such  twenty  day  period.  If  such  proceeding  is  not
  instituted  within  such thirty day period, all dissenter's rights shall
  be lost unless the supreme court, for good cause shown, shall  otherwise
  direct.
    (c)  All  dissenting stockholders, excepting those who, as provided in
  subdivision seven, have agreed with the corporation upon the price to be
  paid for their shares, shall be made parties to such  proceeding,  which
  shall  have  the  effect of an action quasi in rem against their shares.
  The corporation shall serve a copy of the petition  in  such  proceeding
  upon  each dissenting stockholder who is a resident of this state in the
  manner provided by law for the service  of  a  summons,  and  upon  each
  nonresident   dissenting  stockholder  either  by  registered  mail  and
  publication, or in such  other  manner  as  is  permitted  by  law.  The
  jurisdiction of the court shall be plenary and exclusive.
    (d)  The court shall determine whether each dissenting stockholder, as
  to whom the corporation requests the court to make  such  determination,
  is  entitled  to receive payment for his shares. If the corporation does
  not request any such determination  or  if  the  court  finds  that  any
  dissenting stockholder is so entitled, it shall proceed to fix the value
  of  the  shares,  which,  for the purposes of this section, shall be the
  fair  value  as  of  the  close  of  business  on  the  day prior to the
  stockholders'  authorization  date,  excluding   any   appreciation   or
  depreciation  directly or indirectly induced by such corporate action or
  its proposal. The court may, if it so elects, appoint  an  appraiser  to
  receive evidence and recommend a decision on the question of fair value.
  Such  appraiser  shall have the power, authority and duties specified in
  the order appointing him, or any amendment thereof.
    (e) The final order in the proceeding shall  be  entered  against  the
  corporation  in  favor  of each dissenting stockholder who is a party to
  the proceeding and is entitled thereto for the value of  his  shares  so
  determined.
    (f)  The  final  order shall include an allowance for interest at such
  rate as  the  court  finds  to  be  equitable,  from  the  stockholders'
  authorization  date  to the date of payment. If the court finds that the
  refusal of any stockholder to accept the corporate offer of payment  for
  his  shares  was arbitrary, vexatious or otherwise not in good faith, no
  interest shall be allowed to him.
    (g) The costs and expenses of such proceeding shall be  determined  by
  the court and shall be assessed against the corporation, or, in the case
  of  a  merger, the receiving corporation, except that all or any part of
  such costs and expenses may be apportioned and assessed,  as  the  court
  may determine, against any or all of the dissenting stockholders who are
  parties  to  the  proceeding  if  the  court finds that their refusal to
  accept the corporate offer was arbitrary, vexatious or otherwise not  in
  good  faith. Such expenses shall include reasonable compensation for and
  the reasonable expenses of the appraiser, but shall exclude the fees and
  expenses of counsel for and experts employed by  any  party  unless  the
  court,  in  its discretion, awards such fees and expenses. In exercising
  such discretion, the court shall consider any of  the  following:    (A)
  that  the  fair value of the shares as determined materially exceeds the
  amount which such corporation offered to pay; (B) that no offer was made
  by such corporation; and (C) that such corporation failed  to  institute
  the special proceeding within the period specified therefor.
    (h) Within sixty days after final determination of the proceeding, the
  corporation or, in the case of a merger, the receiving corporation shall
  pay  to each dissenting stockholder the amount found to be due him, upon
  surrender of the certificates representing his shares.
    9. Shares acquired by the corporation upon the payment of  the  agreed
  value  therefor  or of the amount due under the final order, as provided
  in this section, shall  be  dealt  with  as  provided  in  section  five
  thousand  fourteen,  except that, in the case of a merger, they shall be
  disposed of as provided in the plan of merger or consolidation.
    10. The enforcement by a stockholder of his right to  receive  payment
  for  his  shares  in  the  manner  provided  herein  shall  exclude  the
  enforcement by such stockholder of any other right  to  which  he  might
  otherwise  be  entitled by virtue of share ownership, except as provided
  in subdivision five, and except that this section shall not exclude  the
  right  of such stockholder to bring or maintain an appropriate action to
  obtain relief on the ground that such corporate action  will  be  or  is
  illegal or fraudulent as to him.
    11. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this section, any notice
  to  be  given by a corporation to a stockholder under this section shall
  be given in the manner provided in section six thousand five.


::: 6023:books_and_records_right_of_inspection_prima_facie_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 6023.  Books and records; right of inspection, prima facie evidence.
  1. Each corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of
  account and shall keep minutes of the proceedings of  its  stockholders,
  board  and  executive committee, if any, and shall keep at the office of
  the corporation in this state or at the office of its transfer agent  or
  registrar  in this state, a record containing the names and addresses of
  all stockholders, the number and class of shares held by  each  and  the
  dates when they respectively became the owners of record thereof. Any of
  the  foregoing minutes or records may be in written form or in any other
  form capable of being converted into written form  within  a  reasonable
  time.
    2.  Any  person  who  shall  have  been  a  stockholder of record of a
  corporation for at least six months immediately preceding his demand, or
  any person holding, or thereunto authorized in writing  by  the  holders
  of,  at  least five percent of any class of the outstanding shares, upon
  at least five days' written demand shall have the right  to  examine  in
  person or by agent or attorney, during usual business hours, its minutes
  of the proceedings of its stockholders and record of stockholders and to
  make  extracts  therefrom.  If  an  investment company has failed to pay
  wages as defined in subdivision two of section six thousand twenty-nine,
  any person to whom a stockholder may be liable thereunder upon at  least
  five  days'  written demand shall have the right to examine in person or
  by agent  or  attorney  during  usual  business  hours,  the  record  of
  stockholders and to make extracts therefrom.
    3.  An  inspection authorized by subdivision two may be denied to such
  stockholder  or  other  person  upon  his  refusal  to  furnish  to  the
  corporation,  its  transfer  agent  or  registrar an affidavit that such
  inspection is not desired for a purpose which is in the  interest  of  a
  business  or  object other than the business of the corporation and that
  he has not within five years sold  or  offered  for  sale  any  list  of
  stockholders  of  any  corporation  of  any type or kind, whether or not
  formed under any law of this state, or aided or abetted  any  person  in
  procuring  any  such  record  of  stockholders for any such purpose. The
  enforcement of liability of an  investment  company  under  section  six
  thousand  twenty-nine  shall not be an object other than the business of
  the corporation.
    4. Upon refusal by the corporation or by an officer or  agent  of  the
  corporation to permit an inspection of the minutes of the proceedings of
  its  stockholders  or the record of stockholders as herein provided, the
  person making the demand for inspection may apply to the  supreme  court
  in the judicial district where the office of the corporation is located,
  upon  such  notice  as  the court may direct, for an order directing the
  corporation, its officer or agent to show cause why an order should  not
  be  granted permitting such inspection by the applicant. Upon the return
  day of the order to  show  cause,  the  court  shall  hear  the  parties
  summarily,  by  affidavit  or  otherwise,  and  if  it  appears that the
  applicant is qualified and entitled to such inspection, the court  shall
  grant  an  order  compelling  such  inspection and awarding such further
  relief as to the court may seem just and proper.
    5. Nothing in this section contained shall impair the power of  courts
  to  compel  the production for examination of the books and records of a
  corporation when not inconsistent  with  any  other  provision  of  this
  chapter.
    6.   The  minutes  of  the  proceedings  of  stockholders,  record  of
  stockholders and the books and records of  account  of  the  corporation
  specified  in subdivision one shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
  therein stated in favor of  the  plaintiff  in  any  action  or  special
  proceeding against such corporation or any of its officers, directors or
  stockholders.


::: 6024:infant_securityholders.html
 
    &#167; 6024.  Infant  securityholders. 1. A corporation may treat an infant
  who holds shares, capital notes or debentures  of  such  corporation  as
  having  capacity  to receive and to empower others to receive dividends,
  interest, principal and other payments and  distributions,  to  vote  or
  express consent or dissent, in person or by proxy, and to make elections
  and   exercise   rights  relating  to  such  shares,  capital  notes  or
  debentures, unless,  in  the  case  of  shares,  the  corporate  officer
  responsible  for  maintaining  the  list of stockholders or the transfer
  agent of the corporation or, in the case of capital notes or debentures,
  the paying officer or agent has received written notice that such holder
  is an infant.
    2. An infant holder of  shares,  capital  notes  or  debentures  of  a
  corporation  who has received or empowered others to receive payments or
  distributions, voted  or  expressed  consent  or  dissent,  or  made  an
  election  or  exercised  a  right  relating thereto, shall have no right
  thereafter to disaffirm or avoid, as against the corporation,  any  such
  act  on  his part, unless prior to such receipt, vote, consent, dissent,
  election or exercise, as to shares, the  corporate  officer  responsible
  for  maintaining  the  list of stockholders or its transfer agent, or in
  the case of capital notes or debentures, the paying officer or agent had
  received written notice that such holder was an infant.
    3. This section does not limit any other statute which authorizes  any
  corporation  to  deal with an infant or limits the right of an infant to
  disaffirm his acts.


::: 6025:stockholders_derivative_action_brought_in_the_right_of_the_corporation_to_procure_a_judgment_in_its_favor.html
 
    &#167; 6025.  Stockholders'  derivative  action brought in the right of the
  corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.  1.  An  action  may  be
  brought  in  the  right  of  a  corporation to procure a judgment in its
  favor, by a holder of shares or of a beneficial interest in such shares.
    2. In any such action, it shall be made to appear that  the  plaintiff
  is such a holder at the time of bringing the action and that he was such
  a  holder  at the time of the transaction of which he complains, or that
  his shares or his interest therein devolved upon  him  by  operation  of
  law.
    3.   In   any   such  action,  the  complaint  shall  set  forth  with
  particularity the efforts of the plaintiff to secure the  initiation  of
  such action by the board or the reasons for not making such effort.
    4.  Such  action  shall  not  be discontinued, compromised or settled,
  without the approval of the court having jurisdiction of the action.  If
  the court shall determine that the interest of the stockholders  of  any
  class  or  classes  thereof  will  be  substantially  affected  by  such
  discontinuance, compromise, or settlement, the court, in its discretion,
  may direct that notice, by publication or otherwise, shall be  given  to
  the  stockholders  or  class  or  classes  thereof  whose  interests  it
  determines will be so affected; if notice is so directed  to  be  given,
  the  court  may determine which one or more of the parties to the action
  shall bear the expense of giving the same, in such amount as  the  court
  shall  determine and find to be reasonable in the circumstances, and the
  amount of such expense shall be awarded as special costs of  the  action
  and recoverable in the same manner as statutory taxable costs.
    5. If the action on behalf of the corporation was successful, in whole
  or  in  part, or if anything was received by the plaintiff or plaintiffs
  or a claimant or claimants as the result of a  judgment,  compromise  or
  settlement of an action or a claim, the court may award the plaintiff or
  plaintiffs,   claimant  or  claimants,  reasonable  expenses,  including
  reasonable attorney's fees, and shall direct him or them to  account  to
  the  corporation for the remainder of the proceeds so received by him or
  them. This subdivision shall not apply to any judgment rendered for  the
  benefit  of  injured  stockholders only and limited to a recovery of the
  loss or damage sustained by them.


::: 6026:security_for_expenses_in_stockholders_derivative_action_brought_in_the_right_of_the_corporation_to_procure_a_judgment_in_its_favor.html
 
    &#167; 6026.  Security  for  expenses  in  stockholders'  derivative action
  brought in the right of the corporation to procure  a  judgment  in  its
  favor.  In  any action specified in section six thousand twenty-five, if
  the plaintiff or plaintiffs hold less than five percent of any class  of
  the   outstanding  shares  or  hold  a  beneficial  interest  in  shares
  representing less than five percent of any class of  such  shares,  then
  unless   the  shares  and  beneficial  interest  of  such  plaintiff  or
  plaintiffs have a fair value in excess of fifty  thousand  dollars,  the
  corporation  in  whose right such action is brought shall be entitled at
  any stage of the  proceedings  before  final  judgment  to  require  the
  plaintiff  or  plaintiffs  to give security for the reasonable expenses,
  including attorney's fees, which may be incurred  by  it  in  connection
  with  such  action  and  by  the  other  parties defendant in connection
  therewith for  which  the  corporation  may  become  liable  under  this
  article,  under  any  contract  or  otherwise  under  law,  to which the
  corporation shall have recourse in  such  amount  as  the  court  having
  jurisdiction of such action shall determine upon the termination of such
  action.  The amount of such security may thereafter from time to time be
  increased  or  decreased  in  the  discretion  of   the   court   having
  jurisdiction  of such action upon showing that the security provided has
  or may become inadequate or excessive.


::: 6029:liability_of_stockholders_for_wages_due_to_laborers_servants_or_employees.html
 
    &#167; 6029.  Liability of stockholders for wages due to laborers, servants
  or employees. 1. The ten largest stockholders, as determined by the fair
  value of their beneficial interest as of the beginning of the period  on
  which  the unpaid services referred to in this section are performed, of
  every investment company, the shares  of  which  are  not  listed  on  a
  national  securities exchange or regularly quoted in an over-the-counter
  market by one or more members of a national or an affiliated  securities
  association,  shall  jointly  and severally be personally liable for all
  debts, wages or salaries due and owing to any of its laborers,  servants
  or  employees other than contractors, for services performed by them for
  such investment company. Before such laborer, servant or employee  shall
  charge  such  stockholder  for  such  services,  he shall give notice in
  writing to such stockholder that he intends to  hold  him  liable  under
  this  section.    Such  notice  shall  be given within ninety days after
  termination of such services, except that if, within  such  period,  the
  laborer,  servant  or  employee  demands an examination of the record of
  stockholders under subdivision two of section six thousand twenty-three,
  such notice may be given within sixty days after he has been  given  the
  opportunity  to examine the record of stockholders. An action to enforce
  such liability shall be commenced within ninety days after the return of
  an execution unsatisfied against the investment company upon a  judgment
  recovered against it for such services.
    2.  For the purposes of this section, wages or salaries shall mean all
  compensation and benefits payable by an employer to or for  the  account
  of  the employee for personal services rendered by such employee.  These
  shall specifically include but not be  limited  to  salaries,  overtime,
  vacation,  holiday  and  severance  pay;  employer  contributions  to or
  payments of insurance or welfare  benefits;  employer  contributions  to
  pension  or  annuity funds; and any other moneys properly due or payable
  for services rendered by such employee.
    3. A stockholder who has paid more than his pro rata share under  this
  section  shall  be  entitled  to  contribution  pro  rata from the other
  stockholders liable under this section with respect  to  the  excess  so
  paid,  over  and  above  his pro rata share, and may sue them jointly or
  severally or any number of them to recover the  amount  due  from  them.
  Such  recovery  may  be  had  in  a  separate  action.  As  used in this
  subdivision,  "pro  rata"  means  in  proportion  to  beneficial   share
  interest.  Before  a  stockholder  may  claim  contribution  from  other
  stockholders under this subdivision, he shall,  unless  they  have  been
  given  notice  by  a laborer, servant or employee under subdivision one,
  give them notice in writing that he intends to hold them  so  liable  to
  him. Such notice shall be given by him within twenty days after the date
  that  notice  was  given  to him by a laborer, servant or employee under
  subdivision one.


::: 602:effect_of_merger.html
 
    &#167; 602. Effect of merger. At the time when a merger becomes effective:
    (1)  the  receiving  corporation shall be considered the same business
  and corporate entity as each corporation merged into it;
    (2) all  of  the  property,  rights,  powers  and  franchises  of  any
  corporation  that  shall  be  so  merged  shall  vest  in  the receiving
  corporation and the receiving corporation shall be  subject  to  and  be
  deemed  to  have  assumed all of the debts, liabilities, obligations and
  duties of such merged corporation and to have succeeded to  all  of  its
  relationships,  fiduciary  or otherwise, as fully and to the same extent
  as if such property, rights,  powers,  franchises,  debts,  liabilities,
  obligations,  duties  and  relationships  had  been originally acquired,
  incurred or entered into by the receiving corporation;
    (3) any reference to a merged corporation in  any  contract,  will  or
  document,  whether executed or taking effect before or after the merger,
  shall be considered a reference to  the  receiving  corporation  if  not
  inconsistent  with  the  other  provisions  of  the  contract,  will  or
  document;
    (4) a pending  action  or  other  judicial  proceeding  to  which  any
  corporation  that  shall be so merged is a party, shall not be deemed to
  have abated or to have discontinued by reason of the merger, but may  be
  prosecuted  to  final judgment, order or decree in the same manner as if
  the merger had not been  made;  or  the  receiving  corporation  may  be
  substituted  as  a party to such action or proceeding, and any judgment,
  order or decree may be rendered for or against it that might  have  been
  rendered  for  or  against  such other corporation if the merger had not
  occurred.
    No corporation organized under or subject to the  provisions  of  this
  chapter   which   subsequent   to   January   first,   nineteen  hundred
  thirty-eight, receives or has received into itself by merger pursuant to
  any provision of law a corporation organized under  or  subject  to  the
  provisions  of  any  law  other  than  this  chapter shall, through such
  merger, acquire power to engage in  any  business  or  to  exercise  any
  right,  privilege  or franchise which is not conferred by the provisions
  of this chapter upon such receiving corporation.


::: 603:issuance_of_new_certificates_of_stock_or_other_consideration.html
 
    &#167; 603.  Issuance  of new certificates of stock or other consideration.
  The receiving  corporation  may  require  the  return  of  the  original
  certificate  or  certificates held by each stockholder or shareholder in
  such other corporation or corporations and may issue in lieu thereof new
  certificates for such number of its own shares, or pay or  deliver  such
  other  consideration, as such stockholder or shareholder may be entitled
  to receive under the merger plan.


::: 604-a:transfer_of_fiduciary_relationships.html
 
    &#167; 604-a.  Transfer  of  fiduciary  relationships.  1.  If  any banking
  institution,  including  a  bank  or  trust  company,  national  banking
  association,  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association, federally
  chartered savings bank, federally chartered savings  association,  or  a
  branch  or  agency of a foreign banking corporation licensed pursuant to
  article  two  of  this  chapter,  located  in  this  state,  shall  have
  transferred  all  or  substantially all of its assets to another banking
  institution in a transaction subject  to  this  chapter  pursuant  to  a
  written  agreement  between  the  transferor  and transferee whereby the
  transferee  has  assumed  the  deposit  liabilities,  if  any,  of   the
  transferor  and  has agreed to assume all fiduciary relationships of the
  transferor, the transferee may file in the office of the  superintendent
  a  certificate  in its name and under its seal, signed by its president,
  secretary or cashier, setting forth a copy of such agreement and stating
  that the transferee assumes all of the fiduciary  relationships  of  the
  transferor  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this  section;  provided,
  however, that such certificate shall not be filed unless the approval of
  the superintendent shall have been endorsed thereon or  annexed  thereto
  before  filing.  In  the case of a branch or agency licensed pursuant to
  article two of this chapter that seeks to participate in  a  transaction
  described in this section, such branch or agency shall be subject to the
  application and approval requirements governing acquisition transactions
  set  forth  in  sections six hundred one-a and six hundred one-b of this
  article.
    2.  Upon  the  filing  of  such  certificate  in  the  office  of  the
  superintendent,  all  of  the property, rights, powers and franchises of
  the transferor as  fiduciary  shall  vest  in  the  transferee  and  the
  transferee   shall   be  deemed  to  have  assumed  all  of  the  debts,
  liabilities, obligations and duties of the transferor as fiduciary,  and
  to  have succeeded to all the fiduciary relationships of the transferor,
  as fully and with the same effect as is provided in sections one hundred
  thirty-six-c and six hundred two of  this  chapter  in  the  case  of  a
  merger,  and  any  reference  to  the  transferor  as  fiduciary  in any
  capacity, contained in any contract, will or document, whether  executed
  or  taking  effect before or after the filing of such certificate in the
  office of the superintendent, shall be considered  a  reference  to  the
  transferee  if  not  inconsistent  with  the  other  provisions  of  the
  contract, will or document.
    3. For purposes of this section, the fiduciary  relationships  of  the
  transferor  shall include all relationships as agent, trustee, guardian,
  receiver, committee,  conservator,  executor,  administrator,  or  other
  fiduciary  in  any  capacity or for any purpose mentioned in section one
  hundred of this chapter, and all  relationships  of  the  transferor  as
  bailee or depositary of personal property.
    4.  This  section  shall  not  be  deemed to authorize a transferee to
  assume any fiduciary relationship of a kind which it would not otherwise
  have power to undertake and perform. Nothing in this  section  shall  be
  deemed  to  authorize  any such transferee to maintain as its own office
  any office previously maintained by the transferor,  and  authority,  if
  any,  to  maintain  any  such office shall be governed by the applicable
  provisions of law other than this section. This  section  shall  not  be
  deemed  to  apply to contracts of the transferor for the leasing of safe
  deposit boxes or vaults.


::: 604:rights_of_dissenting_stockholders.html
 
    &#167; 604. Rights of dissenting stockholders.
    The  following  stockholders  shall,  subject to and by complying with
  section six thousand twenty-two of  this  chapter,  have  the  right  to
  receive  payment  of the fair value of their shares and the other rights
  and benefits provided by such section:
    1.  In  the  case  of  a  merger  pursuant  to  a  plan  submitted  to
  stockholders  as  provided in subdivision two of section six hundred one
  of this chapter, any stockholder of the merging corporation entitled  to
  vote thereon who does not assent thereto;
    2.  In  the  case  of  a  plan  of  acquisition of assets submitted to
  stockholders as provided in subdivision two of section six hundred one-a
  of this chapter, any stockholder of the selling corporation entitled  to
  vote thereon who does not assent thereto; and
    3.  In  the case of a sale, lease, exchange or other disposition which
  requires stockholder authorization under section six  hundred  one-c  of
  this  chapter,  any  stockholder,  entitled  to  vote  thereon,  of  the
  corporation making such sale, lease, exchange or other  disposition  who
  does  not assent thereto, except in the case of a transaction wholly for
  cash where the stockholders' authorization thereof is  conditioned  upon
  the  distribution  of  all  the  net proceeds of such transaction to the
  stockholders in accordance with their respective  interests  within  one
  year  after the date of such transaction and upon the dissolution of the
  corporation.


::: 605-a:transfer_of_deposit_liabilities_of_bank_or_trust_company_sale_or_pledge_of_assets_to_facilitate_such_transfer.html
 
    &#167; 605-a.  Transfer  of  deposit  liabilities of bank or trust company;
  sale or pledge of assets to facilitate such transfer. 1. A bank or trust
  company may, pursuant to a plan approved by  the  superintendent,  enter
  into  an  agreement  with  another  bank  or  trust company, whereby its
  liabilities to depositors will be assumed by such other  bank  or  trust
  company. To facilitate the consummation of such plan and agreement, such
  bank  or  trust  company  may  borrow  money  from  the  Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation and pledge all  or  any  part  of  its  assets  as
  security  for  the  money so borrowed, or it may sell all or any part of
  its assets to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  and  the  money  so
  borrowed  or realized with or without any other assets belonging to such
  bank or trust company, may be transferred by it to such  other  bank  or
  trust  company, in consideration of the latter's agreement to assume and
  pay the deposit liabilities of the former. If the  superintendent  shall
  thereafter  take possession of the business and property of such bank or
  trust company, pursuant to this article, the validity of a claim against
  such bank or trust company which was in existence  when  such  plan  was
  consummated  and  remains  unpaid  shall  be  determined pursuant to the
  provisions of section six hundred  twenty  to  six  hundred  twenty-five
  inclusive  of this article as though such plan had not been consummated.
  Nothing in this section nor in any plan  consummated  pursuant  to  this
  section  shall be deemed to require allowance of any claim if such claim
  would not otherwise be allowable in the liquidation proceedings. If such
  claim is allowed or ultimately established, the owner thereof  shall  be
  entitled  to  dividends  on  his  claim as though such plan had not been
  consummated, and as though the assets of such bank or trust company  had
  been taken over for liquidation immediately prior to any sale, pledge or
  transfer  made  pursuant  to such plan. If such bank or trust company in
  liquidation does not have sufficient other assets to pay such dividends,
  the  deficiency  shall  be  paid  from  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  or
  liquidation  of the assets sold or pledged by such bank or trust company
  to  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation.  If  such  proceeds  prove
  insufficient  to  pay  such deficiency in full, any remaining deficiency
  shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the assets
  transferred by such bank or trust company to such other  bank  or  trust
  company,  exclusive  of cash representing the proceeds of a sale to or a
  loan from Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation.  The  superintendent
  shall  take  such  action  as he shall deem necessary and appropriate to
  protect the interests of the owner of any such claim, but he  shall  not
  be  required to obtain possession of any of the assets from the proceeds
  of which the deficiency in dividends upon such claim is payable,  unless
  it  shall  appear  that  the  amount  required  for  the payment of such
  deficiency is not otherwise available. The superintendent  may,  subject
  to  the approval of the supreme court in the judicial district where the
  principal office of such bank or trust company is located, enter into an
  agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the bank or
  trust company to which any assets of such bank  or  trust  company  have
  been  transferred,  or either of them, whereby payments shall be made to
  him as trustee for the benefit of the person or persons entitled thereto
  from time to time as cash is realized from the sale  or  liquidation  of
  the  assets  from  the  proceeds  of  which  claims are payable. If such
  agreement is approved by the supreme court, after notice of a kind which
  the court deems to be adequate to all persons whose  interests,  in  the
  opinion  of  the court, may be affected thereby, such agreement shall be
  binding upon all such persons. No action may  be  brought  by  any  such
  person  to  enforce payment of his claim unless it be clearly shown that
  the  superintendent  has  refused  or  failed  to  take  necessary   and
  appropriate  action  to  protect  the interests of such person. No sale,
  conveyance or transfer by a bank or trust company of all or any part  of
  its  assets shall be deemed to have been made pursuant to the provisions
  of this section unless the plan approved  by  the  superintendent  shall
  expressly so state. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
  repeal,  limit,  modify or otherwise affect any right or power of a bank
  or trust company to sell, convey or transfer all  or  any  part  of  its
  assets pursuant to any other provision of law.
    2. A bank or trust company assuming the deposit liabilities of another
  bank or trust company in connection with a plan pursuant to this section
  may  issue  preferred  shares  which,  to  the  extent  permitted by the
  superintendent, may have a  retirable  value  greater  than  the  amount
  received in payment for such shares.


::: 6050:company_membership.html
 
    &#167; 6050.  Company  membership.    The  members  of  a limited liability
  investment company or limited liability trust company shall have all  of
  the rights and obligations as set forth in the limited liability company
  law, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.


::: 605:voluntary_liquidation_sale_of_assets_forfeiture_of_charter_by_nonuser.html
 
    &#167; 605. Voluntary liquidation; sale of assets; forfeiture of charter by
  non-user.  1.  Any  corporate  banking organization, the assets of which
  have a value at  least  equal  to  its  liabilities,  exclusive  of  any
  liability to shareholders or stockholders, as such, may voluntarily wind
  up  its affairs; but no banking organization of which the superintendent
  has taken possession in accordance with the provisions  of  section  six
  hundred  six  of  this  chapter  shall take any steps for such voluntary
  dissolution  until  it  has  received  the  written  approval   of   the
  superintendent.
    2.  To effect a voluntary dissolution of any corporation, a meeting of
  the stockholders or shareholders of such corporation having full  voting
  rights,  and  if  applicable  any  other  stockholders  or  shareholders
  authorized  by  the  organization  certificate  or   by-laws   of   such
  corporation  to  vote on a resolution to effect a voluntary dissolution,
  shall be held upon not less than twenty days'  written  notice  to  each
  such  stockholder  or shareholder, either served personally or mailed to
  the stockholder or shareholder at the address appearing upon  the  books
  of  the corporation, and containing a statement of the purpose for which
  such meeting is called. Proof by affidavit of due service of such notice
  shall be filed in the office of the corporation before or at the time of
  such meeting.
    In the case of a mutual savings  bank,  a  meeting  of  its  board  of
  trustees  shall  be  held  upon  like  notice. Proof by affidavit of due
  service of such notice shall be filed in the office of the savings  bank
  before or at the time of such meeting.
    3.  At  such  a  meeting  of stockholders or mutual shareholders, such
  stockholders or mutual shareholders may, by a vote of the owners  of  at
  least  two-thirds  in  amount  of  such stock, or of the capital of such
  mutual corporation, direct  that  the  corporation  be  closed  and  its
  business  wound  up. The proceedings of such meeting shall be entered in
  the minutes of such corporation.
    At such a meeting of the board of trustees  of  a  savings  bank,  the
  trustees  may by vote of not less than two-thirds of their whole number,
  direct by resolution that the savings bank be closed  and  its  business
  wound  up.  The  vote  on  such  resolution  shall  be recorded with the
  resolution in the minutes of the board of trustees.
    A copy of the minutes  of  such  meeting  of  stockholders  or  mutual
  shareholders or board of trustees, verified by the presiding officer and
  by  the  secretary  of such meeting, shall be filed in the office of the
  superintendent within five days after the date of such meeting.
    4. Within three months after the date of any such meeting, application
  may  be  made  to  the  supreme  court,  after   due   notice   to   the
  superintendent,  for an order declaring the business of such corporation
  closed. In a proper case, the court shall make such  order  which  shall
  prescribe  the notice to be given to creditors and depositors to present
  their claims to the corporation for payment. In the closing  order,  the
  court  shall set a date certain by which claims must be presented to the
  corporation for payment. The corporation need not  consider  any  claims
  submitted  after  that  date.  Within five days after the making of such
  order, a certified copy thereof shall be filed  in  the  office  of  the
  superintendent.  Upon  the  entry  of  such order such corporation shall
  cease to do business and shall wind up its affairs,  pay  its  creditors
  and  depositors,  if  any,  and,  except in the case of a mutual savings
  bank,  distribute  any  remaining  assets  among  its  shareholders   or
  stockholders  according  to  their  respective rights and interests. The
  corporation or any creditor or depositor thereof, upon due  notice,  may
  apply  to the court that issued the closing order for a determination as
  to any disputed claim or for any other relief  necessary  to  effectuate
  the  liquidation  and  dissolution  of  the  corporation.  Any petition,
  application, or motion to vacate, set aside, modify or amend such  order
  so   as  to  permit  the  corporation  to  resume  business  shall  have
  incorporated therein a certificate of the superintendent certifying that
  after  investigation  the  superintendent  has  found  that  the  public
  convenience and advantage will be  promoted  by  the  granting  of  said
  petition, application or motion.
    4-a.  (a)  Such  corporation may, at any time after entry of the order
  described in subdivision four of this section, cause  to  be  mailed  to
  each  person  claiming  to  be,  or  appearing  upon  the  books of such
  corporation to be
    (1) the owner of any personal property in the custody or possession of
  such  corporation  as  bailee  or  depositary  for  hire  or  otherwise,
  including  the contents of any safe, vault or box theretofore opened for
  non-payment of rental in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
  or
    (2) the lessee of any safe, vault or box, a notice in writing directed
  by registered mail to such person  at  his  last  address  as  the  same
  appears on the books of such corporation or at his last known address if
  no  address  appears  on such books, notifying such person to remove all
  such property or the contents of any such safe, vault or box,  within  a
  period  stated in said notice, which period shall be not less than sixty
  days from the date of such notice, and further notifying such person  of
  the  terms  and provisions of this subdivision. The contract of bailment
  or of deposit for hire, or lease of safe, vault or box, if any,  between
  the  person  to  whom  such  notice is mailed and such corporation shall
  cease and determine upon the date for removal fixed in such notice. Such
  person shall have a claim against such corporation for the amount of the
  unearned rent or charges, if any, paid by  such  person  from  the  date
  fixed  in  such  notice,  if  the  property or contents is removed on or
  before such date, or from the date of actual removal, if the property or
  contents is removed after such date.
    (b) If such property or contents shall not be removed, and all rent or
  storage and other charges theretofore accrued,  if  any,  shall  not  be
  paid,  within  the  time  fixed  by such notice, such corporation shall,
  within thirty days thereafter, cause such property to be inventoried, or
  such safe, vault or box, or any package, parcel  or  receptacle  in  the
  custody  or  possession  of such corporation as bailee or depositary for
  hire or otherwise, to be opened and the contents, if any, to be  removed
  and  inventoried,  in the presence of an officer of such corporation and
  of a notary public, not an officer or employee thereof. Such property or
  contents shall thereupon be sealed up by such notary public in a package
  distinctly marked by him with the name of the person in whose name  such
  property  or such safe, vault, box, package, parcel or receptacle stands
  upon the books of such corporation, and a copy of the inventory  of  the
  property  therein shall be certified and attached thereto by such notary
  public. Such package may be kept in such place as the corporation,  with
  the  approval  of  the superintendent, may determine, at the expense and
  risk of the person in whose name  it  stands  until  delivered  to  such
  person  or until sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of as hereinafter
  provided. Such package may, from time to time, pending final disposition
  of its contents, be opened  in  the  presence  of  an  officer  of  such
  corporation  and of a notary public, not an officer or employee thereof,
  for inspection or appraisal, or to enable such corporation  to  exercise
  any  of the powers conferred or duties imposed by this article. Whenever
  such package is opened, the notary shall endorse on the outside  thereof
  the date of opening and re-sealing, and shall certify and attach thereto
  a list of the articles, if any, removed therefrom, or placed or replaced
  therein, and an affidavit of the officer in whose presence it was opened
  showing the reason for opening the same.
    (c) At any time prior to the sale, destruction or other disposition of
  the  contents  thereof, the person in whose name such package stands may
  require the delivery thereof upon  payment  of  all  rental  or  storage
  charges  accrued,  and all other charges or expenses paid or incurred to
  the date of delivery with  respect  to  such  package  or  the  contents
  thereof,   including   the  cost  of  inventorying  or  of  opening  and
  inventorying, the fees of the notary public, the cost of  preparing  and
  mailing  the  notice,  and  advertising, if any. If the principal of, or
  interest,  income,  or  dividends  on  any  bonds,  stock  certificates,
  promissory notes, choses in action or other securities contained in such
  package,  is or becomes due and payable while it is in the possession of
  such corporation,  it  may  at  its  election  collect  such  principal,
  interest,  income or dividends, and from the proceeds thereof may deduct
  all such sums due for rental and other charges, until the time  of  such
  collection.  The  balance, if any, of the amount or amounts so collected
  shall be disposed of as hereafter in paragraph (e) of  this  subdivision
  and in subdivision five hereof provided.
    (d)  After  the  expiration  of  one year from the time of mailing the
  notice in paragraph (a) of this subdivision described, such  corporation
  may apply to the supreme court for an order authorizing such corporation
  to  sell,  destroy or otherwise dispose of the contents of such package.
  In a proper case, the court shall make such order upon  such  terms  and
  conditions  as  justice may require. The application for an order of the
  supreme court pursuant to this paragraph shall be made upon an order  to
  show  cause,  which  shall  provide that notice thereof to the person in
  whose name such package stands and  to  any  other  person  claiming  or
  appearing  to  have  an  interest therein, shall be published, mailed or
  given in such  other  manner  as  the  court  may  prescribe.  Whenever,
  pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, a corporation is given the
  power  to  sell the contents of any package, such power to sell shall be
  deemed a power to sell in satisfaction of  a  lien  for  non-payment  of
  rental  or  storage  charges accrued, and all other charges and expenses
  paid or incurred to the date of sale with respect to  such  package  and
  the  contents  thereof,  including the charges and expenses described in
  paragraph (c) hereof. Such power to sell, or the  power  to  destroy  or
  otherwise dispose of, when authorized pursuant to the provisions of this
  paragraph,  shall  be  deemed  to  include the power to sell, destroy or
  otherwise dispose of, as the case may be, any bonds, stock certificates,
  promissory notes, choses in action, or other securities, and  any  other
  tangible  or intangible property contained in any package, regardless of
  whether or not it shall appear from such securities or  properties  that
  the  person  in  whose  name  the  package stands, possesses title to or
  interest in such securities or other properties, or  power  to  transfer
  such  title  or interest, and any sale of such securities or properties,
  pursuant to this  paragraph,  shall  vest  good  title  thereto  in  the
  purchaser thereof.
    (e)  From  the proceeds of any sale, such corporation shall deduct all
  rental or storage charges accrued, and all other  charges  and  expenses
  paid or incurred to the date of sale, including the charges and expenses
  described in paragraph (c) hereof, and the expenses of sale. The balance
  of  such proceeds, if any, shall be credited to the person in whose name
  such package stood and, unless sooner paid over  to  the  superintendent
  pursuant  to subdivision five hereof, shall be paid over to such person,
  his  assignee  or  legal  representative  on  satisfactory  evidence  of
  identity.
    (f)  The  provisions of this subdivision do not affect or preclude any
  other remedy by action or otherwise for the enforcement of the claims or
  rights of  such  corporation  against  the  person  in  whose  name  any
  property, or any safe, vault, box, package, parcel or receptacle stands,
  nor  affect,  nor  bar  the right of such corporation to recover, before
  sale, any debt or claim due it or, after sale, so much of  the  debt  or
  claim as shall not be paid by the proceeds of the sale.
    (g)  The  procedure  prescribed in this subdivision may be followed by
  any corporation winding up its affairs in accordance with the provisions
  of this section, notwithstanding the fact that such corporation may have
  commenced proceedings to open, or may have opened, any  safe,  vault  or
  box  for  non-payment  of  rental in accordance with other provisions of
  this chapter and notwithstanding the contents of  any  notice  that  may
  have  been  given by such corporation in accordance with any requirement
  of this section.
    5. When such corporation shall have given the notice to creditors  and
  depositors to present their claims as prescribed in the order entered in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of subdivision four hereof, and shall
  have paid all its debts and obligations for which a legal  claimant  has
  been  found,  and shall have complied with the provisions of subdivision
  four-a hereof, it shall, before applying to court  for  a  release  upon
  final  accounting  or  for a final order of dissolution, make a verified
  transcript or statement from its books of the names of  all  depositors,
  creditors,  stockholders,  shareholders,  owners of personal property in
  the custody or possession of such corporation as bailee, depositary  for
  hire  or  otherwise,  or lessees of any safe, vault or box, who have not
  claimed or have not received the deposits,  debts,  dividends,  interest
  balances  or  other  amounts due them, and shall file such transcript or
  statement  with  the  superintendent  together  with   all   identifying
  information,  including,  in  the case of unclaimed proceeds of any sale
  pursuant  to  subdivision  four-a  hereof,  a  certified  copy  of   the
  inventory,  and  an  affidavit showing compliance with the provisions of
  said subdivision, a list of the  articles  sold,  the  price  or  prices
  obtained  therefor, and the amount or amounts deducted and retained from
  the  proceeds  and  such  corporation  shall  thereupon  pay  over  such
  unclaimed  amounts  to  the  superintendent  as  trustee for the persons
  entitled to receive them, as provided in article two of this chapter.
    6. Upon the petition of such corporation showing
    (a) that all its debts and obligations  have  been  discharged  except
  those for which no legal claimant has been found,
    (b) that notice was given to creditors and depositors to present their
  claims  as prescribed by the court and that any period prescribed by the
  court for the presentation of such claims has expired,
    (c) that the provisions of subdivision four-a hereof,  if  applicable,
  have been complied with and
    (d)  that all unclaimed amounts referred to in subdivision five hereof
  have been paid  over  to  the  superintendent,  and  on  notice  to  the
  comptroller  and the superintendent and such further notice as the court
  may prescribe, the court may, on such terms as justice requires, make an
  order affirming such disposition of such unclaimed amounts and declaring
  such corporation dissolved and its corporate existence terminated.
    7. On filing with the superintendent a certified copy of the order  of
  dissolution described in the last preceding subdivision of this section,
  the corporation shall cease to exist.
    8.  Unless  the  superintendent shall otherwise provide, any corporate
  banking organization that, pursuant to an agreement,  sells  or  conveys
  more than fifty per centum of its assets without the written approval of
  the  superintendent shall take the proceedings for voluntary dissolution
  herein prescribed and, within six months from the date of such  sale  or
  conveyance,  shall  file with the superintendent a certified copy of the
  closing order in  the  form  prescribed  by  subdivision  four  of  this
  section.   The  corporate  banking  organization,  upon  making  written
  application to the superintendent for approval of the sale or conveyance
  of more than fifty per centum of its assets, shall pay an  investigation
  fee  as  prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter. If a
  closing order is required to be filed pursuant to this  subdivision  and
  such  order  is not filed within the time prescribed, the superintendent
  shall have the  power,  in  the  superintendent's  discretion,  to  take
  possession  of the business and property of such corporation and proceed
  with the liquidation thereof under the provisions of this article.
    9. If the superintendent shall  certify  that  any  corporate  banking
  organization  is  deemed  by  him  to  have  abandoned and forfeited its
  charter by non-user and to be virtually in process of liquidation,  such
  corporation,  if  its  assets  have  a  value  at  least  equal  to  its
  liabilities, exclusive of any liability to shareholders or stockholders,
  as such, shall take the  proceeding  for  voluntary  dissolution  herein
  prescribed  and,  within  six  months from the date of such certificate,
  shall file with the superintendent a certified copy of the closing order
  in the form prescribed by subdivision four  of  this  section.  If  such
  order  is not filed within the time prescribed, the superintendent shall
  have the power, in his discretion, to take possession  of  the  business
  and  property  of  such  corporation  and  proceed  with the liquidation
  thereof under the provisions of this article.
    10. (a) Upon the petition of the superintendent showing
    (1) that any corporate banking organization  has  ceased  to  transact
  business,  or  has  commenced but failed to complete proceedings for its
  voluntary dissolution in accordance with the banking  law,  or  for  any
  other  reason  is  deemed  by  the  superintendent to have abandoned and
  forfeited its charter by non-user, and
    (2) that all  of  its  assets  have  been  distributed,  or  that  the
  superintendent  has no knowledge as to the existence of any such assets,
  the  supreme  court  in  the  judicial  district  where   such   banking
  organization  maintained  its  principal  place  of business may make an
  order declaring such corporation dissolved and the  corporate  existence
  thereof terminated. Upon the filing of a certified copy of such order in
  the office of the superintendent the existence of such corporation shall
  cease and determine.
    (b)  If  the petition of the superintendent shall show, in addition to
  the allegations required  by  the  provisions  of  subparagraph  (1)  of
  paragraph (a) of this subdivision, that such banking organization
    (1) has undistributed assets and it appears that in the opinion of the
  superintendent  the  cost  of  taking possession of and liquidating such
  assets in accordance with the provisions of this article will exceed the
  fair value of such assets, and
    (2) has failed, for a period of two years after  ceasing  to  transact
  business  or  commencing  proceedings  for its voluntary dissolution, to
  complete such proceedings  or  to  produce  proof  satisfactory  to  the
  superintendent  that  it  has  complied  with  or  is  in the process of
  complying with the provisions of the banking law, the  court  may,  upon
  such   notice  as  it  may  prescribe,  make  an  order  declaring  such
  corporation dissolved and the corporate  existence  thereof  terminated,
  and further declaring that such assets have been abandoned and providing
  for  the  payment, delivery or transfer thereof to the superintendent in
  such manner and at such time as the court may direct. Upon the filing of
  a certified copy of such order in the office of the  superintendent  the
  existence  of  such  corporation  shall cease and determine. At any time
  within six months after the entry of such order, the court may upon good
  cause shown and upon such terms as justice may require, vacate or modify
  such order. At the expiration of such six-month period or  such  further
  period as the court may prescribe, the superintendent shall sell, redeem
  or  otherwise  dispose  of such assets and from the proceeds thereof may
  retain and pay all costs, disbursements and legal fees  allowed  by  the
  court  and  any  assessments,  penalties or forfeitures incurred by such
  banking organization under the banking law. The  remaining  proceeds  if
  any  shall  forthwith  be  paid  into the state treasury for the use and
  benefit of the state.
    11. (a) Any  foreign  banking  corporation  which  has  been  licensed
  pursuant  to  article  two of this chapter to engage in business in this
  state, including any such corporation whose license has been surrendered
  or revoked, may, if it so desires, take proceedings  for  the  voluntary
  liquidation  of  its  business  and property in this state in accordance
  with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this subdivision;  but  no  such
  liquidation shall be commenced while the superintendent is in possession
  of  such  business and property unless such corporation shall have first
  received the  written  approval  of  the  superintendent.  In  any  such
  liquidation  the  claims of creditors of such corporation arising out of
  transactions had by them with its New York agency or agencies or  branch
  or  branches  shall  be accorded the same preference accorded to similar
  claims in a liquidation under subdivision four of  section  six  hundred
  six of this article.
    (b)  To  effect  such  a  voluntary liquidation, a foreign corporation
  shall subscribe, acknowledge and file with  the  superintendent  at  his
  office  a  written notice of its intention so to liquidate, which notice
  shall specify the date of commencement of the liquidation, and upon such
  date, such corporation shall forthwith cease  to  transact  business  in
  this  state  if it has not already done so, and shall proceed to wind up
  its affairs in this state. Within thirty  days  after  such  date,  such
  corporation  shall  make  application  to  the  supreme court, after due
  notice to the superintendent, for an order prescribing the notice to  be
  given  to the preferred creditors hereinabove described to present their
  claims for payment. Every such corporation shall, in the course of  such
  liquidation, comply with the provisions of subdivisions four-a, five and
  six   of  this  section,  except  that  an  order  entered  pursuant  to
  subdivision six of this section shall  affirm  the  disposition  of  the
  unclaimed  amounts therein referred to and shall authorize the turn-over
  of all of the assets remaining after payment of the preferred  creditors
  to  the principal office of such corporation. Within five days after the
  making of any order described in this paragraph a certified copy thereof
  shall be filed in the office of the superintendent.
    (c) Any foreign banking corporation which has been  licensed  pursuant
  to  article  two  of  this  chapter to engage in business in this state,
  which shall liquidate its business and property in  this  state  without
  electing to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
  subdivision,  shall, upon completion of the liquidation, make a verified
  transcript or statement from its books of the  names  of  all  creditors
  whose  claims  arise  out  of transactions had by them with its New York
  agency or agencies, or its New York branch or branches and of all owners
  of personal property in the custody or  possession  of  such  agency  or
  agencies  or  branch  or  branches  as  bailee,  depositary  for hire or
  otherwise, who have not claimed or have not received the debts or  other
  amounts  due  them, and shall file such transcript or statement with the
  superintendent together with all identifying information, including,  in
  the  case of unclaimed proceeds of any sale of personal property, a list
  of the articles sold, the price or prices  obtained  therefor,  and  the
  amount  or  amounts  deducted  and  retained from the proceeds, and such
  corporation shall thereupon pay  over  such  unclaimed  amounts  to  the
  superintendent  as  trustee for the persons entitled to receive them, as
  provided  in  article  two  of  this  chapter.  Any  such corporation so
  liquidating its business and property  in  this  state  may,  if  it  so
  desires,  follow the procedures for the disposition of personal property
  in the custody or possession  of,  and  exercise  the  same  powers  and
  privileges  with  respect  thereto accorded to, banking organizations in
  subdivision four-a of this section. To effectuate the purposes  of  this
  chapter,  the  superintendent  may  impose  additional  requirements and
  procedures for the foreign banking corporation to follow with respect to
  the dissolution of the licensed office.
    (d)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision,  the  words   "debts",
  "obligations"  and  "deposits", as used in subdivisions four-a, five and
  six of this section, shall be deemed to refer to  the  preferred  claims
  hereinabove  described,  the words "creditors" and "depositors" shall be
  deemed to refer to the owners of such preferred claims,  the  references
  in  subdivisions four-a and five of this section to the order entered in
  accordance with subdivision four of this  section  shall  be  deemed  to
  refer  to  the  like  order entered in accordance with the provisions of
  this subdivision, and, except when the context shall otherwise  require,
  the  word  "corporation" shall be deemed to refer to the New York agency
  or agencies, or branch or branches and the word "officer" shall  include
  the  agent  or other person in charge of such agency or agencies and any
  person in charge of or who is an officer of such branch or  branches  or
  of the liquidation.
    12.  If  the  superintendent  shall  at  any time find that any of the
  reasons enumerated in section  six  hundred  six  of  this  article  for
  takeover  of  the  business and property of a banking organization or of
  the business and property in this state of a foreign banking corporation
  shall exist, he may, in his discretion,  forthwith  take  possession  of
  such  business  and  property  in accordance with the provisions of such
  section notwithstanding that such banking  organization  or  corporation
  may have theretofore commenced proceedings for the voluntary liquidation
  of such business and property in accordance with this section.


::: 606:when_superintendent_may_take_possession_of_banking_organization_when_possession_may_be_surrendered.html
 
    &#167; 606.   When   superintendent   may   take   possession   of  banking
  organization; when possession may be surrendered. 1. The  superintendent
  may,  in  his  discretion, forthwith take possession of the business and
  property of any banking organization whenever it shall appear that  such
  banking organization:
    (a) Has violated any law;
    (b) Is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner;
    (c) Is in an unsound or unsafe condition to transact its business;
    (d) Cannot with safety and expediency continue business;
    (e)  Has  an  impairment  of  its capital; or, in the case of a mutual
  savings and loan association or credit union, has assets insufficient to
  pay its debts and the amount due members upon their shares;
    (f) Has suspended payment of its obligations; or, in  the  case  of  a
  mutual  savings  and loan association, has failed for sixty days after a
  withdrawal application has been filed with it by any shareholder to  pay
  such withdrawal application in full;
    (g) Has neglected or refused to comply with the terms of a duly issued
  order of the superintendent;
    (h) Has refused, upon proper demand, to submit its records and affairs
  for inspection to an examiner of the department;
    (i) Has refused to be examined upon oath regarding its affairs.
    (j)  Has  neglected, refused or failed to take or continue proceedings
  for voluntary liquidation in accordance with any of  the  provisions  of
  this chapter.
    2. The superintendent may, in his discretion, and upon such conditions
  as  may be approved by him, surrender possession and permit such banking
  organization to resume business.
    3. When the superintendent shall have duly  taken  possession  of  the
  property and business of any such banking organization, he may hold such
  possession  until  its  affairs are finally liquidated by him, unless he
  shall surrender possession  as  provided  in  subdivision  two  of  this
  section or be enjoined from continuing possession as provided in section
  six  hundred  seven of this article, or unless such banking organization
  shall, with the written approval of the superintendent, voluntarily wind
  up its affairs as provided in section six hundred five of this article.
    4. (a)  The  superintendent  may  also,  in  his  or  her  discretion,
  forthwith  take possession of the business and property in this state of
  any  foreign  banking  corporation  that  has  been  licensed   by   the
  superintendent  under the provisions of this chapter, including, for the
  purposes of this article, any such corporation whose  license  has  been
  surrendered  or revoked, upon his or her finding that any of the reasons
  enumerated in subdivision one of this section exist with respect to such
  corporation or that it is in liquidation at its domicile or elsewhere or
  that there is reason to doubt its ability or willingness to pay in  full
  the  claims  of  the  creditors  hereinbelow  described.  Title  to such
  business  and  property  shall  vest  by  operation  of   law   in   the
  superintendent   and   his  or  her  successors  forthwith  upon  taking
  possession. Thereafter the superintendent shall liquidate  or  otherwise
  deal  with  such business and property in accordance with the provisions
  of this chapter applicable to the liquidation of banking  organizations,
  except  that the superintendent may deal with such business and property
  and prosecute and defend any and all actions relating thereto in his  or
  her  own  name  as  superintendent. Only the claims of creditors of such
  corporation arising out of transactions had by them with  its  New  York
  agency  or  agencies,  or with its New York branch or branches, shall be
  accepted by the superintendent for payment  out  of  such  business  and
  property  in  this  state  as  provided  in  this article. Acceptance or
  rejection of such claims by the superintendent shall not prejudice  such
  creditors'  rights to otherwise share in the assets of such corporation.
  The following claims shall not be accepted  by  the  superintendent  for
  payment  out  of  such  business  and property in this state: (1) claims
  which  would  not represent an enforceable legal obligation against such
  branch  or  agency  if  such  branch  or  agency  were  a  separate  and
  independent  legal  entity; and (2) amounts due and other liabilities to
  other offices, agencies or branches of, and affiliates of, such  foreign
  banking corporation.
    (b)  Whenever  the accepted claims, together with interest thereon, if
  interest was paid, and the expenses of the liquidation have been paid in
  full or properly provided for, the superintendent upon the order of  the
  supreme  court  shall  turn  over  the remaining assets to, in the first
  instance, other offices of the  foreign  banking  corporation  that  are
  being  liquidated  in  the  United  States,  upon  the  request  of  the
  liquidators of those offices, in amounts which the liquidators of  those
  offices  demonstrate  to the superintendent are needed to pay the claims
  accepted  by  those  liquidators  and  any  expenses  incurred  by   the
  liquidators  in  liquidating  those other offices of the foreign banking
  corporation. After such payments, if any, have been made, any assets  of
  the   foreign   banking  corporation  remaining  in  the  hands  of  the
  superintendent shall be turned over to  the  principal  office  of  such
  foreign  banking  corporation,  or  to  the  duly  appointed domiciliary
  liquidator or receiver of said foreign  banking  corporation.  Dividends
  and  other  amounts  remaining  unclaimed  or unpaid in the hands of the
  superintendent for six months after such turn-over shall be deposited by
  him or her as provided in article two of this chapter.
    (c) As used in this subdivision the phrase "business and  property  in
  this state" includes, but is not limited to, all property of the foreign
  corporation,  real,  personal  or mixed, whether tangible or intangible,
  (1) wherever situated, constituting part of the business of the New York
  agency or branch and appearing on its books as such,  and  (2)  situated
  within  this  state  whether or not constituting part of the business of
  the New York agency or branch or so appearing on its books.
    (d)  For  the  purposes  of  this  subdivision,  the  words   "debts",
  "obligations",  "deposits" and other similar terms as used in subsequent
  sections of this article, shall be deemed to refer to  the  claims  that
  the  superintendent  shall  accept  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this
  subdivision, the words "creditors" and "depositors" shall be  deemed  to
  refer to the owners of such accepted claims and, except when the context
  shall   otherwise   require,   the   terms  "banking  organization"  and
  "corporation" shall be deemed  to  refer  to  the  New  York  agency  or
  agencies  or branch or branches and the word "officer" shall include the
  agent or other person in charge of  such  agency  or  agencies  and  any
  person  in charge of or who is an officer of such branch or branches. As
  used in this subdivision, (i) "affiliate"  shall  mean  any  person,  or
  group  of  persons acting in concert, that controls, is controlled by or
  is under common control with such foreign banking corporation  and  (ii)
  "control"  means  any  person,  or  group  of persons acting in concert,
  directly or indirectly, owning, controlling or  holding  with  power  to
  vote,  more  than  fifty  percent  of  the voting stock of a company, or
  having the ability in any manner to elect a majority of the directors of
  a company, or otherwise exercising  a  controlling  influence  over  the
  management and policies of a company as defined by the superintendent by
  regulation.  For  purposes  of this subdivision, the term "person" shall
  mean a corporation,  unincorporated  association,  partnership,  or  any
  other entity or individual.
    5.  The  term  "banking  organization"  as used in this and subsequent
  sections of this article shall be deemed to include a corporation  which
  has  engaged in any business or other activity prohibited by section one
  hundred thirty-one of this chapter, and an  unincorporated  association,
  partnership,  fiduciary or individual who has engaged in any business or
  other activity prohibited by section one hundred eighty of this chapter.
    6.  (a) In the case of the liquidation of an investment company by the
  superintendent, accepted claims, amounts due and other liabilities  owed
  to  affiliates  of  such investment company shall be paid only after all
  accepted claims, amounts due and other liabilities owed have been  fully
  paid  to  such  creditors  and other claimants of the investment company
  that are not affiliates of such investment company.
    (b) For the purposes of this subdivision, (i) "affiliate"  shall  mean
  any  person,  or  group  of persons acting in concert, that controls, is
  controlled by or is under common control with such  investment  company,
  and  (ii)  "control"  means  any  person,  or group of persons acting in
  concert, directly or indirectly, owning, controlling,  or  holding  with
  power to vote, more than fifty percent of the voting stock of a company,
  or having the ability in any manner to elect a majority of the directors
  of  a  company, or otherwise exercising a controlling influence over the
  management and policies of a company as defined by the superintendent by
  regulation. For purposes of this subdivision, the  term  "person"  shall
  mean  a  corporation,  unincorporated  association,  partnership, or any
  other entity or individual.


::: 607:manner_and_time_within_which_taking_possession_may_be_tested.html
 
    &#167; 607.  Manner  and time within which taking possession may be tested.
  At  any  time  within  ten  days  after  the  superintendent  has  taken
  possession of the property and business of any banking organization such
  banking  organization  may  apply  to  the supreme court in the judicial
  district in  which  its  principal  office  is  located,  for  an  order
  requiring the superintendent to show cause why he should not be enjoined
  from  continuing  such possession. The court may, upon good cause shown,
  direct the superintendent to refrain from  further  proceedings  and  to
  surrender such possession.


::: 609:resumption_of_business_by_bank_trust_company_or_industrial_bank_retirement_of_certificates_applicability_to_stockform_savings_banks_and_stockform.html
 
    &#167; 609.  Resumption  of  business  by bank, trust company or industrial
  bank; retirement of certificates; applicability  to  stock-form  savings
  banks  and  stock-form savings and loan associations. 1. Any bank, trust
  company,  stock-form  savings  bank  or  stock-form  savings  and   loan
  association of which the superintendent has taken possession or which is
  operating  under  restrictions imposed by duly constituted authority may
  be permitted by the superintendent, in his  discretion  and  subject  to
  such  conditions  as  may  be  approved  by  him,  to resume business in
  accordance with the provisions of this section.
    2. No  bank,  trust  company  or  industrial  bank  permitted  by  the
  superintendent  to  resume business in accordance with the provisions of
  this section shall, without previously obtaining the written  permission
  of  the  superintendent,  pay,  on  account  of any deposit made or debt
  incurred  before  such  restrictions  were   imposed   or   before   the
  superintendent took possession of such bank, trust company or industrial
  bank,  more than that proportion of eighty per centum of the total value
  of its sound assets, as determined by  the  superintendent,  which  such
  deposit  or  debt  bears  to the total of the deposits and debts of such
  bank, trust company or industrial bank at the time of resuming business:
  provided that  nothing  contained  in  this  section  shall  affect  any
  preference  created  by  any  law  of  this state for the benefit of any
  depositor or creditor or impair the rights of any secured  depositor  or
  creditor  in  any  assets lawfully pledged or assigned as such security.
  For the purposes of this section, the holder of a judgment  against  any
  such  bank,  trust  company  or industrial bank for the payment of money
  arising out of a cause of action arising prior  to  such  resumption  of
  business,  whether  such  judgment  was recovered prior or subsequent to
  such resumption of business, shall have the same rights as if he were  a
  depositor  having  a balance equal to the amount of such judgment at the
  time such restrictions were imposed or at the  time  the  superintendent
  took  possession  of  such  bank,  trust company or industrial bank. The
  superintendent shall prepare  for  each  such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial  bank  a list of the assets which, in his judgment, are sound
  and the value thereof as determined by him.
    3. Such bank, trust company or industrial bank shall, immediately upon
  resuming business, issue to its depositors and creditors  non-negotiable
  transferable  certificates,  in  a  form approved by the superintendent,
  representing the part  of  its  deposits  and  debts  which  it  is  not
  authorized  to  pay at that time under the provisions of subdivision two
  of this section. Such certificates shall bear interest,  if  any,  at  a
  rate not in excess of three per centum per annum.
    4.  The superintendent shall from time to time determine the excess of
  the value of the sound assets of such bank, trust company or  industrial
  bank  over  the  total  of  the  principal  amount  of such certificates
  outstanding and of the deposits and debts of such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank not represented by such certificates, including deposits
  made and debts incurred after resuming business.  The  amount  by  which
  such  excess is greater than the excess of the value of the sound assets
  of such bank, trust company or industrial bank, determined  as  provided
  in subdivision two of this section, over its total deposits and debts at
  the   time   of   resuming   business  may,  unless  the  superintendent
  disapproves, be paid pro rata on account of the principal  due  on  such
  certificates  or,  if the principal has been paid in full, on account of
  the interest, if any, due  thereon.  No  such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial   bank   shall,  without  previously  obtaining  the  written
  permission of the superintendent, make any other payment on  account  of
  the principal or interest of such certificates.
    5. No dividends shall be paid on the stock of such bank, trust company
  or  industrial bank while any such certificates are outstanding, unless,
  having previously secured the written permission of  the  superintendent
  to  pay  such  certificates,  it  shall  set  aside  and  maintain a sum
  sufficient  for the payment of all such outstanding certificates and the
  interest, if any, accrued thereon and shall publish once a week for  two
  calendar  weeks  in  a  newspaper  published  in the county in which its
  principal office is located, notice to the effect that it will  pay  all
  such  certificates  and  the  interest, if any, accrued thereon upon due
  presentation for payment. If, thereafter, any such certificate  together
  with  all  interest,  if any, accrued thereon, shall not be paid when so
  presented, the authority of such bank, trust company or industrial  bank
  to pay such dividends shall cease.
    6.  So  long as any of such certificates are outstanding, every holder
  of such a certificate shall have the same right to notice of all regular
  or special meetings of the stockholders of such bank, trust  company  or
  industrial  bank and to attend and to vote in person or by proxy at such
  meetings as would a holder of stock of  the  par  value  of  the  unpaid
  principal  amount  of  such  certificate,  except  that  no  holder of a
  certificate or certificates shall be entitled to vote upon any change in
  respect to shares or capital stock pursuant to title  eight  of  article
  fifteen  or  to  receive  notice  of or attend a meeting of stockholders
  specially called for that purpose. Within sixty days  after  such  bank,
  trust  company  or industrial bank has resumed business a meeting of its
  stockholders and holders of  such  certificates  shall  be  called  upon
  notice prescribed by the superintendent. At such meeting directors shall
  be  elected who shall succeed the former directors, and the directors so
  elected shall elect officers who  shall  succeed  the  former  officers.
  Directors  in  office at the date of such meeting may be elected at such
  meeting to succeed themselves and the directors elected at such  meeting
  may elect officers then serving to succeed themselves.
    7.  If  the superintendent shall retake possession of the business and
  property of such bank, trust company or industrial bank while  any  such
  certificates  are  still  outstanding  and  liquidate  its  business  as
  elsewhere provided in this chapter, deposits and debts  not  represented
  by  such  certificates, including deposits made and debts incurred after
  resuming business,  shall  be  entitled  to  payment  of  principal  and
  interest  in  priority  to  the payment of the principal and interest of
  such certificates.
    8. (a) A plan for  the  retirement  of  certificates  issued  or  made
  available  by  a  bank, trust company or industrial bank pursuant to the
  provisions of this section may be promulgated in  accordance  with  this
  subdivision  eight in any case where the value of all the assets of such
  bank,  trust  company  or  industrial  bank   as   determined   by   the
  superintendent  is  less  than  the  aggregate  of  the amounts owing to
  depositors and other creditors  plus  the  unpaid  amount  of  all  such
  certificates  so issued or made available by such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank. Such plan  may  be  promulgated  by  such  bank,  trust
  company  or  industrial bank or by the holders of ten per centum or more
  in  principal  amount  of  all  such  outstanding  certificates  or  the
  representative or representatives of such holders.
    (b) Such plan may provide for any one or more of the following:
    (1)  The  retirement  of  certificates  by  the  issuance  in exchange
  therefor of shares of capital stock or debentures or both of such  bank,
  trust company or industrial bank;
    (2)  The  issuance  of  preferred stock of such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank and the sale of such preferred stock  for  cash  or  its
  exchange for real or personal property or for outstanding capital notes,
  debentures   or  other  obligations  of  such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial bank;
    (3)  The  issuance of fractional shares of capital stock of such bank,
  trust company  or  industrial  bank  in  exchange  for  certificates  or
  portions  thereof  in  unpaid amount insufficient to permit the exchange
  thereof for a full share of capital stock.  Such  fractional  shares  of
  capital stock shall have no voting rights, but, when combined with other
  fractional shares in sufficient amount, shall be convertible into a full
  share or shares of capital stock;
    (4)  The transfer into a separate account upon the books of such bank,
  trust company or industrial bank or to a separate  corporation,  of  any
  assets  to be liquidated for the pro rata benefit of certificate holders
  and the issuance to certificate holders of evidences of participation in
  such assets if transferred into a separate account  upon  the  books  of
  such  bank, trust company or industrial bank, or of stock or obligations
  or both of such separate corporation, if such assets are transferred  to
  a separate corporation;
    (5)   The  organization  of  a  corporation  to  issue  its  stock  or
  obligations or both in exchange for certificates and for the exchange of
  certificates so acquired by such corporation for shares of  the  capital
  stock  or  debentures  or both of such bank, trust company or industrial
  bank;
    (6) The amount of capital stock which  such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial  bank  shall  have  upon  the  plan  becoming  effective, the
  classes, if any, into which such capital stock  shall  be  divided,  the
  number of shares in each class and the par value of each share.
    In  addition  to  provisions  herein  specifically  authorized  to  be
  contained in a plan promulgated pursuant to this subdivision, such  plan
  may  also contain any other provisions deemed necessary or convenient to
  effectuate the general purpose or purposes of the plan.
    (c) The person or persons promulgating such plan shall first submit it
  to the superintendent for his approval. If the plan is approved  by  the
  superintendent,  such  person  shall  within sixty days of such approval
  submit it to the supreme court in  and  for  the  county  in  which  the
  principal  office  of  such  bank,  trust  company or industrial bank is
  located, together with an application for its approval. Such application
  shall set forth such facts as may be necessary to enable  the  court  to
  determine  the  fairness of such plan and shall be made upon an order to
  show cause which shall provide that notice thereof of a kind  which  the
  court deems to be adequate shall be given by such bank, trust company or
  industrial  bank  to  all  holders  of  such  certificates and all other
  persons whose interests, in the opinion of the court, may be affected by
  such plan. If the issue is raised in any  proceeding  involving  a  plan
  promulgated  pursuant to this subdivision, a certificate executed by the
  superintendent and filed with the court shall be presumptive evidence of
  the fact that the value of all of the assets of such bank, trust company
  or industrial bank is less than the aggregate of the  amounts  owing  to
  depositors  and  other  creditors  plus  the  unpaid  amount of all such
  certificates issued or made available by such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial bank.
    (d)  The  superintendent or the bank, trust company or industrial bank
  or any person or persons authorized to promulgate a plan  hereunder  may
  propose and submit to the court an alternative plan or a modification or
  modifications  of  any  plan  before the court. The court may modify any
  such plan or may propose a new or alternative plan,  provided,  however,
  that  a  modification or modifications, whether proposed by the court or
  by any other person or persons, may be made only after  a  hearing  upon
  notice  to  all  holders  of  certificates  and  all other persons whose
  interests, in the opinion of the court, may  be  affected  thereby,  and
  subject  to  the right of any person who shall previously have consented
  to such plan to withdraw such consent within a period to  be  prescribed
  by  the  court  and  after  such  notice as the court may direct. If any
  person having such right of withdrawal shall  not  withdraw  within  the
  period so prescribed he shall be deemed to have approved such plan as so
  modified.
    (e)  After  the  hearing or hearings above provided the court shall by
  order approve a plan, with or without modifications, or shall reject all
  such plans, provided, however, that  no  order  made  pursuant  to  this
  paragraph approving such plan shall be made or entered unless such plan,
  in  final  form,  shall  first  have  been  approved  in  writing by the
  superintendent and such written approval shall have been  filed  in  the
  proceeding.  If at the time of making the order approving such plan, the
  court is satisfied that the holders of  two-thirds  in  amount  of  such
  certificates  have  approved  such  plan,  the  order of the court shall
  recite such fact and shall declare that such  plan  shall  be  effective
  upon  the filing by the superintendent in the office of the clerk of the
  county in which is located the principal  office  of  such  bank,  trust
  company  or  industrial  bank  of  the  certificate required to be filed
  pursuant to paragraph (k) of this subdivision. If at the time of  making
  such  order,  such  plan  shall not have been approved by the holders of
  two-thirds in amount of such certificates, such order shall provide that
  upon satisfactory proof of the fact that the holders  of  two-thirds  in
  amount  of  such  certificates  shall  have approved the same, a further
  order may be  entered  ex  parte  declaring  that  such  plan  shall  be
  effective  upon  the  filing  by the superintendent in the office of the
  clerk of the county in which is located the  principal  office  of  such
  bank, trust company or industrial bank of the certificate required to be
  filed pursuant to paragraph (k) of this subdivision.
    (f)  Upon  the  entering of an order declaring that such plan shall be
  effective upon the filing by the superintendent in  the  office  of  the
  county  clerk  of  the  certificate  required  to  be  filed pursuant to
  paragraph (k) of this subdivision, such plan shall become  binding  upon
  the  holders  of  all  certificates  of  such  bank,  trust  company  or
  industrial bank and all such holders shall  be  conclusively  deemed  to
  have  consented  to all the terms and conditions of such plan whether or
  not all of such  holders  shall  actually  have  consented  thereto  and
  whether  or not all of them shall have received notice thereof or of the
  hearing thereon hereinbefore provided.
    (g)  Every  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  guardian,  committee,
  conservator,  receiver, or other fiduciary, and every public and private
  corporation   or   association,   and   every   political   and   public
  instrumentality  or body, including, but not by way of limitation of the
  generality of the foregoing, boards of education  and  school  districts
  and  other  special  districts,  is  hereby  authorized and empowered to
  approve and accept a plan promulgated pursuant to this  subdivision  and
  to  execute and deliver such papers and documents as may be necessary or
  proper to evidence such  approval  and  acceptance,  and  shall  not  be
  subject  to any liability whatsoever for any such approval or acceptance
  or any exchange of certificates for stock or other  securities  or  both
  made pursuant thereto.
    (h) A plan promulgated pursuant to this subdivision may be effectuated
  even  though  it  has  not  been  expressly  approved  by the holders of
  two-thirds in amount of all outstanding certificates,  provided,  as  an
  alternative  to  such express approval, the provisions of this paragraph
  have  been  complied  with.  After  the  plan   is   approved   by   the
  superintendent  as  provided  by  paragraph (c) of this subdivision, the
  person or persons promulgating such plan shall file a copy thereof  with
  the clerk of the court and shall prepare and mail to each of the holders
  of  such  certificates  and to each of the holders of stock of the bank,
  trust  company  or industrial bank, addressed by registered mail to him,
  postage prepaid, to his last known address as the same  appears  on  the
  records of the bank, trust company or industrial bank, a summary of such
  plan  together with a notice stating in substance that such plan will be
  presented to the supreme court in  and  for  the  county  in  which  the
  principal  office  of  the  bank,  trust  company  or industrial bank is
  located, and designating a date, which  date  shall  not  be  less  than
  thirty  days  after  the  mailing  of  such notice, when such court will
  consider such plan and hear any objection thereto on  the  part  of  any
  holder of a certificate or of stock. Such notice shall also be published
  by  the  person  or persons promulgating such plan once, at least twenty
  days before said date, in  a  daily  newspaper  of  general  circulation
  published  in  the county where such hearing is to be had and if no such
  daily newspaper is published in such county, then such notice  shall  be
  published in a newspaper of general circulation in said county. Upon the
  return  of such notice or any adjourned date or dates thereof, the court
  shall hear the parties  interested  therein  and  may  accept  proof  in
  affidavit  form  or otherwise as to any facts and circumstances material
  thereto. The court upon proof by affidavit that  the  provisions  hereof
  with  respect  to  mailing and publication have been fully complied with
  shall thereupon approve, modify or disapprove such plan, but in no event
  shall any such plan, with or without modifications, be approved  by  the
  court unless the court deems such plan fair and equitable to the holders
  of  certificates  and  unless such plan, in final form, shall first have
  been approved  in  writing  by  the  superintendent,  and  such  written
  approval  shall have been filed in the proceeding; or if written dissent
  therefrom, duly executed and acknowledged, shall be filed with the clerk
  of the court prior to such return date, or prior to such other  date  as
  may  be fixed by the court, by the holders in the aggregate of more than
  thirty-three and  one-third  per  centum  of  the  face  amount  of  the
  certificates affected by such plan. All holders of certificates who have
  not dissented from the plan in the manner provided by this paragraph and
  prior to the return date or such other date as may be fixed by the court
  shall  be  conclusively deemed to have assented thereto. Such plan shall
  contain  a  provision  in  respect  of  certificate  holders  dissenting
  thereto, to the effect that adequate protection will be provided for the
  realization by them of the value of their certificates by such method as
  will  in  the  opinion  of  the  court,  under  and  consistent with the
  circumstances of the particular case, be equitable  and  fair  to  them.
  When  such plan, with or without modifications, shall be approved by the
  court, the  court  shall  make  an  order  reciting  such  approval  and
  declaring  that  such  plan  shall  be  effective upon the filing by the
  superintendent in the office of the clerk of  the  county  in  which  is
  located  the  principal office of such bank, trust company or industrial
  bank of the certificate required to be filed pursuant to  paragraph  (k)
  of  this subdivision. The appellate court to which an appeal is taken by
  any dissenting certificate holder or by any stockholder from any  action
  by  the  court  pursuant  to this section shall have the right to impose
  upon the appellant as part of the costs of the appeal,  reasonable  fees
  of counsel for the respondent, and such appellate court may also, in its
  discretion, require bond therefor before entertaining any such appeal.
    (i)  Upon  the  entering of an order declaring that such plan shall be
  effective upon the filing by the superintendent in  the  office  of  the
  county  clerk  of  the  certificate  required  to  be  filed pursuant to
  paragraph (k) of this subdivision, such steps  shall  be  taken  by  the
  superintendent  and all other persons, and all acts shall be done as may
  be required by such plan and as may be necessary or  desirable  to  make
  such  plan  operative. Within ten days after the entering of such order,
  the  superintendent shall issue an order pursuant to article two of this
  chapter directing that such bank, trust company or industrial bank shall
  forthwith make good the impairment of its capital. Upon receipt of  such
  order, the directors of the bank, trust company or industrial bank shall
  give notice to each stockholder of such requisition and of the amount of
  the  assessment  he  must  pay,  which amount shall be the aggregate par
  value of his shares. Such notice shall be mailed to each stockholder  at
  his  address  appearing  on  the  records  of the bank, trust company or
  industrial bank or shall be served personally upon him.  Notwithstanding
  any provision of section one hundred fourteen or section  three  hundred
  six  of  this  chapter,  all outstanding stock certificates of the bank,
  trust company or industrial bank shall be canceled of  record  not  less
  than  thirty days after notice of assessment is given to stockholders as
  herein provided, and thereupon such stock certificates shall be null and
  void for all purposes and the rights of  the  holders  thereunder  shall
  cease  and  determine; provided, however, that each stockholder who pays
  the full amount of such assessment within thirty days  after  notice  of
  assessment  is  given  as  herein provided shall receive, in lieu of the
  stock on account of which such assessment was paid,  new  stock  in  the
  amount  to  which he would be entitled if he held certificates issued by
  such bank, trust company or industrial bank pursuant to  the  provisions
  of  this  section  in  an aggregate unpaid principal and interest amount
  equal to the assessment so paid.
    (j) Not less than thirty nor more than  sixty  days  after  notice  of
  assessment is given to stockholders as provided in paragraph (i) of this
  subdivision,  the  superintendent  shall, if the plan so provides, cause
  any assets of such bank, trust company or industrial bank which  are  to
  be liquidated for the pro rata benefit of certificate holders, to be set
  aside in a special account upon the books of such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank or transferred to a separate corporation.
    (k)  Upon  the  completion of the acts required to be done pursuant to
  paragraph (i) and paragraph (j) of this subdivision and  not  more  than
  sixty  days  after  notice  of  assessment  is  given to stockholders as
  provided in paragraph (i) of this subdivision, the superintendent  shall
  execute  in triplicate a certificate declaring such plan to be effective
  and stating the amount of capital stock which such bank,  trust  company
  or  industrial  bank  shall  thereafter  have, the classes, if any, into
  which such capital stock shall be divided, the number of shares in  each
  class  and the par value of each such share. The amount of capital stock
  stated in such certificate shall be not less than the amount of  capital
  stock  required  to  be  issued  to certificate holders pursuant to such
  plan, plus the amount of capital stock required, pursuant  to  paragraph
  (i)  of  this  subdivision,  to be issued to stockholders who shall have
  paid the  full  amount  of  the  assessments  levied  pursuant  to  such
  paragraph  (i).    The amount of capital stock, the number of shares and
  the par value of each such share as stated in such certificate shall  be
  the  amount  of  capital  stock,  the number of shares and the par value
  thereof  which  such  bank,  trust  company  or  industrial  bank  shall
  thereafter be authorized to have, provided that nothing herein contained
  shall  be  deemed  to limit the power of any such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank subsequently to change the amount of its capital  stock,
  the  number  of  its  shares  or the par value of its shares pursuant to
  subdivision two of section eight thousand one. One  of  such  triplicate
  certificates  shall  be  transmitted  forthwith by the superintendent to
  such bank, trust company or industrial bank, another shall be  filed  in
  the  office  of  the  superintendent and the third shall be filed by the
  superintendent in the office of the clerk of  the  county  in  which  is
  located  the  principal office of such bank, trust company or industrial
  bank. Upon such filing in the office of the county clerk, the plan shall
  become  effective  and all certificates theretofore issued by such bank,
  trust company or industrial bank pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this
  section shall be null and void and shall not be deemed to be outstanding
  for  any  purpose. Thereupon such bank, trust company or industrial bank
  shall issue and make available  to  the  holders  of  such  certificates
  shares  of  stock  or  debentures or both of such bank, trust company or
  industrial bank, and if the plan so provides, evidences of participation
  in the assets aside in a special account or stock or other securities or
  both of a separate corporation, in the proportions and amounts specified
  in such plan.
    (l) Within sixty days after a plan pursuant to  this  subdivision  has
  become  effective  with respect to any bank, trust company or industrial
  bank, there shall be called in accordance with its by-laws a meeting  of
  its  stockholders who shall elect directors who shall succeed the former
  directors. The directors so  elected  shall  elect  officers  who  shall
  succeed  the  former  officers.  Directors in office at the date of such
  meeting may be elected at such meeting to  succeed  themselves  and  the
  directors  elected  at  such  meeting may elect officers then serving to
  succeed themselves. Notwithstanding the requirements as to ownership  of
  capital  stock contained in section one hundred sixteen or section three
  hundred three of this chapter, the directors of such bank, trust company
  or industrial bank holding office at the time  that  such  plan  becomes
  effective  may  continue  to  hold  office  as  directors,  until  their
  successors are elected and shall have qualified.
    (m) The supreme court in and for the county in which  is  located  the
  principal  office  of  such  bank,  trust  company or industrial bank is
  hereby vested with jurisdiction and authority to determine the  fairness
  of,  and  to  approve  or  disapprove,  any  plan,  or  modification  or
  modifications  thereof,  which  may  be  promulgated  hereunder  and  to
  determine  the  fairness of, and to approve or disapprove, the terms and
  conditions of the issuance and exchange of stock or other securities, or
  both, of  any  corporation  for  certificates  issued  pursuant  to  the
  provisions  of  this  section  and to make such orders and do such other
  things as may be required by this subdivision or as may be necessary  or
  convenient to carry out the purposes hereof.
    9.  If  there  be in article fifteen of this chapter a provision which
  conflicts with any provision of  this  section  six  hundred  nine,  the
  provision  of  this  section  six  hundred  nine  shall prevail, and the
  conflicting provision of article fifteen shall not apply in  such  case.
  If there be in article fifteen a provision relating to a matter embraced
  in  this  section  six hundred nine, but not in conflict therewith, both
  provisions shall apply.


::: 610:resumption_of_business_in_accordance_with_plan_of_reorganization.html
 
    &#167; 610.   Resumption   of   business   in   accordance   with  plan  of
  reorganization.  The superintendent, in his  discretion,  may  permit  a
  corporation  of which he has taken possession or which is operating on a
  restricted basis pursuant to regulations promulgated by duly constituted
  authority,  to  resume  business  in   accordance   with   a   plan   of
  reorganization  under  which depositors and other creditors will receive
  less than the full amount of their  claims  and/or  in  partial  payment
  thereof  will  receive  certificates  of  beneficial interest in certain
  segregated assets and/or stock of  such  corporation,  and  under  which
  stockholders  will contribute their shares of capital stock and/or money
  in lieu of assessments upon such stock. In any such case  in  which  the
  superintendent permits resumption of business pursuant to such a plan of
  reorganization,  all  depositors  and  creditors and stockholders of any
  such corporation, whether or not they shall have consented to such  plan
  of  reorganization,  shall  be  fully and in all respects subject to and
  bound by  its  provisions,  and  claims  of  all  depositors  and  other
  creditors  shall  be  treated  as  if  they  had consented to such plan;
  provided,  however,  that  the  superintendent  shall   not   permit   a
  corporation  to  resume  business  in  accordance  with  such  a plan of
  reorganization unless it has been shown to  his  satisfaction  that  (1)
  such  plan  is  fair and equitable to all depositors and other creditors
  and stockholders and is in the public interest and (2)  that  depositors
  and  other  creditors, representing at least eighty per centum in amount
  of its total deposits and other liabilities, exclusive of the claims  of
  depositors and other creditors which will be satisfied in full under the
  plan  of  reorganization, and stockholders owning at least two-thirds of
  its outstanding capital stock, as shown by the books of the corporation,
  have  consented  in  writing  to  such  plan;  provided  further,   that
  permission  to  resume  business  under  any such plan of reorganization
  shall be granted by the superintendent only upon an order of the supreme
  court in and for the county  in  which  the  principal  office  of  such
  corporation  is  located.    The application for an order of the supreme
  court pursuant to this section shall be made upon an order to show cause
  which shall provide that notice thereof, of a kind which the court deems
  to be adequate  and  proper,  be  given  to  depositors,  creditors  and
  stockholders of such corporation.


::: 611-a:appointment_of_single_judge.html
 
    &#167; 611-a.  Appointment  of  single  judge.  When the superintendent has
  taken possession of and is liquidating the business and property in this
  state of any banking organization under the provisions of this  article,
  the  superintendent  shall  be  entitled  to the appointment of a single
  judge to supervise the liquidation upon request  to  the  administrative
  judge  of  the  supreme  court  in  the  judicial  district in which the
  principal office of such banking organization  is  located.  Such  judge
  shall  have  the  power  to  order expedited or simplified procedures or
  order a reference  wherever  necessary  to  resolve  a  matter  in  such
  liquidation.


::: 611:special_deputies_assistants_counsel_and_other_employees.html
 
    &#167; 611.  Special deputies; assistants; counsel and other employees. The
  superintendent may, by certificate, under his hand and the official seal
  of the department, appoint one or more special deputy superintendents as
  agent or agents to assist him in liquidating the business and affairs of
  any banking organization in his possession.   The  superintendent  shall
  file  such  certificate  in  his office and shall cause a certified copy
  thereof to be filed with the supreme court in the judicial  district  in
  which  the  principal office of such banking organization is located. He
  may delegate such special deputy superintendents to perform such  duties
  connected   with   such   liquidation  as  he  may  deem  proper.    The
  superintendent may employ such counsel and  expert  assistants,  without
  being  subject  to the requirements of section one hundred twelve of the
  state finance law or to the prior approval of any  other  state  agency,
  under  such titles as he shall assign to them and may retain such of the
  officers or employees of  such  banking  organization  as  he  may  deem
  necessary  in  the  liquidation and distribution of its assets. He shall
  require such security  as  he  may  deem  proper  from  his  agents  and
  assistants appointed pursuant to the provisions of this section.


::: 612-a:payment_of_wages.html
 
    &#167; 612-a.   Payment of wages. All wages actually owing to the employees
  of a banking organization in the possession of  the  superintendent  for
  services  rendered within three months prior to the date when possession
  was taken, not exceeding two thousand dollars to each employee, shall be
  paid prior to the payment of every other  debt  or  claim,  and  in  the
  discretion  of  the  superintendent  may  be paid as soon as practicable
  after taking possession, except that at  all  times  the  superintendent
  shall  reserve  such  funds as will in his opinion be sufficient for the
  expenses of administration.


::: 612:certificates_to_be_recorded_and_received_in_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 612.  Certificates  to  be  recorded  and  received in evidence. The
  superintendent,  deputy  superintendents,   and   the   special   deputy
  superintendents  designated  under the provisions of section six hundred
  eleven  of  this  chapter,  are  hereby  authorized  to  subscribe   and
  acknowledge  written  statements  reciting  determinations  made or acts
  performed pursuant to the powers vested in and duties imposed  upon  the
  superintendent  pursuant  to  the  terms and provisions of this chapter.
  Every paper so executed and acknowledged  by  the  superintendent  or  a
  deputy superintendent or a special deputy superintendent may be recorded
  in  any  proper  recording  office  in the same manner and with the same
  effect as a deed regularly acknowledged and, whether or not so recorded,
  shall be received in evidence in any action or proceeding now pending or
  hereafter commenced, and shall be  presumptive  evidence  of  the  facts
  therein stated.
    Any  statement,  similarly executed and acknowledged, setting forth an
  extract from a book, record or document of any banking  organization  in
  the  possession  of  the  superintendent  or  any  other book, record or
  document relating to the  liquidation  thereof,  shall  be  received  in
  evidence  in any action or proceeding now pending or hereafter commenced
  with the same effect as the original book, record or document.


::: 613:payment_by_superintendent_of_expenses_of_liquidation.html
 
    &#167; 613.  Payment  by  superintendent  of expenses of liquidation.   The
  superintendent shall pay out of the funds in his hands  of  any  banking
  organization  of which he is in possession, all expenses of liquidation,
  subject to the approval of the supreme court in the judicial district in
  which the principal office of such banking organization was located. The
  application for an order of the supreme court pursuant to  this  section
  shall  be  made  upon  an  order  to show cause which shall provide that
  notice thereof to the depositors and creditors, and to the  stockholders
  or  shareholders, if any, of such banking organization be published once
  in each week for  two  consecutive  weeks  in  a  newspaper  of  general
  circulation  in the county in which the principal office of such banking
  organization was located.  Such order to show cause shall also be served
  upon such banking organization in such manner  as  the  court,  in  such
  order to show cause, may direct. The hearing upon such application shall
  be  held  not  less  than  ten  days after the first publication of such
  notice. An order approving  the  final  expenses  of  liquidation  of  a
  corporate  banking  organization  may,  in  a  proper  case,  and if the
  petition complies with the requirements of subdivision three of  section
  six  hundred twenty-seven of this article, include a provision declaring
  the  banking  organization  dissolved  and   its   corporate   existence
  terminated.  The supreme court shall not upon any application under this
  section  increase  the  compensation  of special deputy superintendents,
  assistants, counsel or other employees over  the  amount  fixed  by  the
  superintendent, or direct the superintendent to make any expenditure not
  approved by him.


::: 614:obtaining_possession_of_pleadings_et_cetera_in_actions_against_which_attorneys_liens_are_asserted.html
 
    &#167; 614.  Obtaining  possession  of  pleadings,  et  cetera,  in actions
  against which attorneys' liens are asserted. When the superintendent  is
  in  possession  of  any  banking  organization, and attorneys' liens are
  asserted by attorneys of such banking organization against any causes of
  action to which  such  banking  organization  is  a  party,  or  against
  pleadings  or  other papers in the possession of such attorneys relating
  to such causes of action, or if such  liens  are  asserted  against  any
  evidences  of  title  to any assets or against any of the assets of such
  banking organization then in  the  possession  of  such  attorneys,  the
  superintendent  may institute special proceedings and petition the court
  to fix and determine the amount of such liens. Such proceedings shall be
  instituted in the county in which the principal office of  such  banking
  organization is located. Upon application of the superintendent and upon
  notice to such attorneys to be prescribed by the court, the court may by
  order  prior  to final order in such proceeding direct such attorneys to
  deliver to the superintendent all property of such banking organization,
  against which such liens are asserted, together with  such  consents  to
  substitution   of   attorneys   as   the  court  may  direct,  upon  the
  superintendent furnishing security to such attorneys in the  manner  and
  to an amount that may be fixed by the court.


::: 615:on_taking_possession_superintendent_shall_notify_those_holding_assets_effect_of_notification_turnover_of_assets_and_payment_of_debts_owed_to_the_ba.html
 
    &#167; 615. On taking possession, superintendent shall notify those holding
  assets;  effect of notification; turnover of assets and payment of debts
  owed to the banking organization. When  the  superintendent  shall  take
  possession of the property and business of any banking organization:
    1.  The superintendent shall forthwith give notice of such fact to all
  corporations, unincorporated  associations,  partnerships,  governmental
  entities  and  other  entities  and individuals known to him to hold any
  assets of such  banking  organization.  No  corporation,  unincorporated
  association,   partnership,  governmental  entity  or  other  entity  or
  individual having notice or knowledge that the superintendent has  taken
  possession of such banking organization, shall have a lien or charge for
  any  payment,  advance  or  clearance thereafter made against any of the
  assets of such banking organization for liability thereafter incurred.
    2. Upon the written demand of  the  superintendent,  any  corporation,
  unincorporated  association,  partnership,  governmental entity or other
  entity or individual holding assets of such banking  organization  shall
  deliver  such  assets  to  the  superintendent  and  shall  thereupon be
  discharged from liability with respect to any claim  upon  such  assets;
  provided,  however  that  such  demand  shall  not affect the right of a
  secured creditor with a perfected security interest, or other valid lien
  or security  interest  enforceable  against  third  parties,  to  retain
  collateral,  including  any  right  of  such  secured creditor under any
  security arrangement related  to  a  qualified  financial  contract,  as
  defined  in  section  six  hundred  eighteen-a of this article to retain
  collateral and apply such collateral in accordance with paragraph (d) of
  subdivision two of section  six  hundred  eighteen-a  of  this  article.
  Nothing in this section shall affect any right of setoff permitted under
  applicable   law;   provided,  however,  that  in  connection  with  the
  liquidation of a branch or  agency  of  a  foreign  banking  corporation
  pursuant  to  this  article,  no  entity  or  individual may set off the
  business and property in this state of such foreign banking  corporation
  described  in  subparagraph  one of paragraph (c) of subdivision four of
  section six hundred six of this  article  against  liabilities  of  such
  foreign   banking  corporation  other  than  those  that  arise  out  of
  transactions had by such entity or individual with such branch or agency
  (which liabilities shall be deemed to include in the case  of  qualified
  financial  contracts  the  lesser  of  the  two  amounts calculated with
  respect to any such qualified financial contract pursuant  to  paragraph
  (c)  of  subdivision  two  of  section  six  hundred  eighteen-a of this
  article) and provided that such setoff is  otherwise  permissible  under
  applicable law.


::: 616:inventory_of_assets_where_filed.html
 
    &#167; 616.  Inventory  of  assets; where filed.   After the superintendent
  shall have taken possession of and shall have  determined  to  liquidate
  the  property and business of any banking organization, he shall make in
  duplicate an inventory of the assets of such  banking  organization.  He
  shall  file one copy of such inventory in his office and shall cause one
  copy to be filed with the supreme court  in  the  judicial  district  in
  which the principal office of such banking organization is located.


::: 617:disposition_of_property_held_as_bailee_or_depositary_opening_of_safe_deposit_boxes_disposal_of_contents.html
 
    &#167; 617.  Disposition of property held as bailee, or depositary; opening
  of safe deposit boxes; disposal of contents. 1. The superintendent  may,
  after  he  has taken possession of any banking organization, cause to be
  mailed to each person claiming to be, or appearing  upon  the  books  of
  such banking organization to be
    (1) the owner of any personal property in the custody or possession of
  such banking organization as bailee or depositary for hire or otherwise,
  including  the contents of any safe, vault or box theretofore opened for
  non-payment of rental in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
  or
    (2) the lessee of any safe, vault or box, a notice in writing directed
  by registered mail to such person  at  his  last  address  as  the  same
  appears  on  the books of such banking organization or at his last known
  address if no address appears on such books, notifying  such  person  to
  remove all such property or the contents of any such safe, vault or box,
  within  a  period  stated in said notice, which period shall be not less
  than sixty days from the date of such notice, and further notifying such
  person of the terms and provisions of  this  section.  The  contract  of
  bailment or of deposit for hire, or lease of safe, vault or box, if any,
  between  the  person  to  whom  such  notice  is mailed and such banking
  organization shall cease and determine upon the date for  removal  fixed
  in  such  notice.  Such  person  shall have a claim against such banking
  organization for the amount of the unearned rent  or  charges,  if  any,
  paid  by such person from the date fixed in such notice, if the property
  or contents is removed on or before such  date,  or  from  the  date  of
  actual removal, if the property or contents is removed after such date.
    As  used  herein  the  phrase  "personal  property  in  the custody or
  possession of such banking organization as bailee or depositary for hire
  or otherwise" shall include,  without  limitation,  securities,  whether
  held  in  custody  directly  or  in  book-entry  form  by  such  banking
  organization, its nominee, subcustodian, clearing corporation or similar
  entity.
    2. If such property or contents shall not be removed, and all rent  or
  storage  and  other  charges  theretofore  accrued, if any, shall not be
  paid, within the time fixed by such notice, the superintendent may cause
  such property to be inventoried, or such safe,  vault  or  box,  or  any
  package,  parcel  or  receptacle  in  the  custody or possession of such
  banking organization as bailee or depositary for hire or  otherwise,  to
  be  opened  and  the contents, if any, to be removed and inventoried, in
  his presence or in the presence of a deputy  superintendent,  a  special
  deputy  superintendent,  or  an  examiner and of a notary public, not an
  officer or employee of such banking organization or of the department of
  financial services. Such property or contents shall thereupon be  sealed
  up  by such notary public in a package distinctly marked by him with the
  name of the person in whose name such property or such safe, vault, box,
  package, parcel or receptacle stands upon  the  books  of  such  banking
  organization,  and a copy of the inventory of the property therein shall
  be certified and attached thereto by such notary  public.  Such  package
  may  be  kept by the superintendent in such place as he may determine at
  the expense and risk of  the  person  in  whose  name  it  stands  until
  delivered  to such person or until sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed
  of as hereinafter provided. Such package may, pending final  disposition
  of   its   contents,   be   opened   by  the  superintendent,  a  deputy
  superintendent, special deputy superintendent or examiner, from time  to
  time  for  inspection  or  appraisal, or to enable the superintendent to
  exercise any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon him by  this
  article.  Whenever  such  package  is opened, the superintendent, deputy
  superintendent, special deputy superintendent or examiner, shall endorse
  on the outside of said package the date of opening and  re-sealing,  and
  shall  prepare an affidavit which shall be attached thereto, showing the
  reason for opening and the  articles,  if  any,  removed  therefrom,  or
  placed or replaced therein.
    3.  At any time prior to the sale, destruction or other disposition of
  the contents thereof, the person in whose name such package  stands  may
  require  the  delivery  thereof  upon  payment  of all rental or storage
  charges accrued, and all other charges or expenses paid or  incurred  to
  the  date  of  delivery  with  respect  to  such package or the contents
  thereof,  including  the  cost  of  inventorying  or  of   opening   and
  inventorying,  the  fees of the notary public, the cost of preparing and
  mailing the notice, and advertising, if any. In case the  superintendent
  is  in  doubt concerning the person entitled to receive such package, or
  there are conflicting claims thereto, he may require of the claimant  an
  order  of  the  supreme  court  authorizing  and  directing the delivery
  thereof, but for any delivery or transfer made by him in good  faith  to
  the  claimant  appearing  from  the records in his office to be entitled
  thereto, he shall be held harmless  and  shall  not  be  liable  to  any
  subsequent  claimant.  If  the  principal  of,  or  interest, income, or
  dividends on any bonds, stock certificates, promissory notes, choses  in
  action  or other securities contained in such package, is or becomes due
  and payable while it is in the possession of the superintendent, he  may
  at  his  election collect such principal, interest, income or dividends,
  and from the proceeds thereof may deduct all such sums  due  for  rental
  and  other  charges,  until the time of such collection. The balance, if
  any, of the amount or amounts so collected shall be disposed of  by  the
  superintendent as hereafter in subdivision five provided.
    4.  After  the  expiration  of  one  year from the time of mailing the
  notice in subdivision one hereof described, the superintendent may apply
  to the supreme court for an order authorizing him to  sell,  destroy  or
  otherwise dispose of the contents of such package. In a proper case, the
  court  shall  make  such order upon such terms and conditions as justice
  may require. The application for an order of the supreme court  pursuant
  to  this  subdivision  shall  be made upon an order to show cause, which
  shall provide that notice thereof to  the  person  in  whose  name  such
  package  stands and to any other person claiming or appearing to have an
  interest therein, shall be published, mailed  or  given  in  such  other
  manner  as the court may prescribe. Whenever, pursuant to the provisions
  of this subdivision, the superintendent is given the power to  sell  the
  contents  of  any package, such power to sell shall be deemed a power to
  sell in satisfaction of a lien for  non-payment  of  rental  or  storage
  charges  accrued, and all other charges and expenses paid or incurred to
  the date of sale with respect to such package and the contents  thereof,
  including  the  charges  and  expenses  described  in  subdivision three
  hereof. Such power to sell, or the power to destroy or otherwise dispose
  of, when authorized pursuant to  the  provisions  of  this  subdivision,
  shall  be  deemed  to  include  the  power to sell, destroy or otherwise
  dispose  of,  as  the  case  may  be,  any  bonds,  stock  certificates,
  promissory  notes,  choses in action, or other securities, and any other
  tangible or intangible property contained in any package, regardless  of
  whether  or  not it shall appear from such securities or properties that
  the person in whose name the  package  stands,  possesses  title  to  or
  interest  in  such  securities or other properties, or power to transfer
  such title or interest, and any sale of such securities  or  properties,
  pursuant  to  this  subdivision,  shall  vest  good title thereto in the
  purchaser thereof.
    5. From the proceeds of any sale, the superintendent shall deduct  all
  rental  or  storage  charges accrued, and all other charges and expenses
  paid or incurred to the date of sale, including the charges and expenses
  described in subdivision three hereof, and the  expenses  of  sale.  The
  balance  of  such  proceeds,  if any, shall be credited to the person in
  whose name such package stood and shall be paid over to such person, his
  assignee  or  legal representative on satisfactory evidence of identity.
  At the expiration of six months after the completion of the  liquidation
  of  such  banking  organization,  the  superintendent  shall deposit any
  unclaimed amounts derived from such sale, as provided in article two  of
  this chapter.
    6.  The provisions of this section do not affect or preclude any other
  remedy by action or otherwise for  the  enforcement  of  the  claims  or
  rights  of  the superintendent, or of a banking organization of which he
  is in possession, against the person in whose name any property, or  any
  safe,  vault, box, package, parcel or receptacle stands, nor affect, nor
  bar the right of the  superintendent  or  the  banking  organization  to
  recover,  before  sale, any debt or claim due him or it, or, after sale,
  so much of the debt or claim as shall not be paid by the proceeds of the
  sale.


::: 618-a:repudiation_of_contracts.html
 
    &#167; 618-a. Repudiation of contracts.  1. Except as otherwise provided in
  this  section,  when  the  superintendent  has  taken  possession of the
  business and property in this state of a  banking  organization,  unless
  the federal regulator or insurer is appointed as receiver or liquidator,
  the  superintendent  may  assume or repudiate any contract, including an
  unexpired lease, of the banking organization: (a) to which such  banking
  organization   is   a   party,   (b)   the   performance  of  which  the
  superintendent, in the superintendent's  discretion,  determines  to  be
  burdensome,   and  (c)  the  repudiation  of  which  the  superintendent
  determines, in the superintendent's discretion, will promote the orderly
  administration  of  the  banking  organization's  affairs.   After   the
  expiration  of  ninety  days from the date that the superintendent takes
  possession of the banking organization, any party to a contract with the
  banking organization being liquidated may demand  in  writing  that  the
  superintendent  assume or repudiate such contract. If the superintendent
  has not assumed or repudiated the contract within fifteen calendar  days
  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  demand by the superintendent, the
  affected party may bring an action in the supreme court in the  judicial
  district  in  which  the principal office of the banking organization is
  located to obtain  an  order  requiring  the  superintendent  to  decide
  whether to assume or repudiate that contract.  If the superintendent has
  not  assumed  or repudiated a contract by one month before the last date
  for filing claims against  the  banking  organization  being  liquidated
  pursuant  to  section  six hundred twenty of this article, such contract
  shall be deemed repudiated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with  respect
  to an unexpired lease of the banking organization for the rental of real
  property  under  which  the  banking  organization  was a lessee, if the
  superintendent   remains   in   possession   of   the   leasehold,   the
  superintendent  shall  not be required to assume or repudiate such lease
  and may continue in possession of such leasehold for  the  remainder  of
  the  term  of  the  lease  in  accordance  with  the terms of the lease;
  provided, however, that should the superintendent  later  repudiate  the
  lease  before the end of the lease term, any amounts that may be due the
  lessor due to such repudiation shall  be  calculated  according  to  the
  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  subdivision  three  of this section.
  Notwithstanding any other provision contained in  this  subdivision,  in
  liquidating  a  branch  or  agency of a foreign banking corporation, the
  superintendent shall not assume or  repudiate  any  qualified  financial
  contract  that  the  branch or agency entered into which is subject to a
  multi-branch netting agreement or arrangement that provides for  netting
  present or future payment obligations or payment entitlements (including
  termination   or   close-out  values  relating  to  the  obligations  or
  entitlements) among  the  parties  to  the  contract  and  agreement  or
  arrangement  and  the  superintendent shall not be required to assume or
  repudiate any other qualified financial  contract  that  the  branch  or
  agency entered into; provided, however, that upon any repudiation of any
  qualified  financial  contract  or the termination or liquidation of any
  qualified financial contract in accordance with its terms, the liability
  of the superintendent under such qualified financial contract  shall  be
  determined in accordance with subdivision two of this section.
    2.  (a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  section,  upon the
  repudiation or termination of any contract pursuant to  subdivision  one
  of this section, the liability of the superintendent shall be limited to
  the  actual  direct compensatory damages of the parties to the contract,
  determined as of the date the  superintendent  took  possession  of  the
  banking  organization.  The  superintendent  shall not be liable for any
  future wages other than severance payments (to the extent such  payments
  are reasonable), or for payments for future services, costs of cover, or
  any  consequential,  punitive  or  exemplary  damages,  damages for lost
  profits or lost opportunity or damages for pain and suffering.
    (b) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the liability of the
  superintendent upon the repudiation of any qualified financial contract,
  or  in  connection  with the termination or liquidation of any qualified
  financial contract in  accordance  with  the  terms  thereof,  shall  be
  limited  as  provided  in paragraph (a) of this subdivision, except that
  compensatory damages shall be deemed to include  normal  and  reasonable
  costs  of  cover  or other reasonable measures of damages utilized among
  participants in the market  for  qualified  financial  contract  claims,
  calculated  as of the date of repudiation or the date of the termination
  of such qualified financial contract in accordance with its terms.  Upon
  the  repudiation  of  any  qualified financial contract or in connection
  with the termination or liquidation of any qualified financial  contract
  in  accordance  with  the  terms thereof, if the superintendent shall be
  entitled to damages, such damages shall be paid over by the party to the
  superintendent upon  written  demand  pursuant  to  subdivision  two  of
  section  six  hundred  fifteen  of  this  article,  notwithstanding  any
  provision in any such contract that purports to effect a  forfeiture  of
  such damages.
    (c)  In the case of the liquidation of a branch or agency of a foreign
  banking corporation by the superintendent,  with  respect  to  qualified
  financial  contracts  subject to netting agreements or arrangements that
  provide for netting present or future  payment  obligations  or  payment
  entitlements  (including termination or close-out values relating to the
  obligations or entitlements) among the  parties  to  the  contracts  and
  agreements  or  arrangements, the liability of the superintendent to any
  party to any such qualified financial contract upon  repudiation  or  in
  connection  with  the  termination  or  liquidation  of  such  qualified
  financial contract in  accordance  with  the  terms  thereof,  shall  be
  calculated  as of the date of repudiation or the date of the termination
  of such qualified financial contract in accordance with  its  terms  and
  shall  be limited to the lesser of (i) the global net payment obligation
  and (ii) the branch/agency net payment obligation. The liability of  the
  superintendent  under  this  paragraph  shall  be  reduced by any amount
  otherwise paid to or received by the party in respect of the global  net
  payment  obligation  pursuant to such qualified financial contract which
  if added to the liability of the  superintendent  under  this  paragraph
  would  exceed  the  global  net payment obligation. The liability of the
  superintendent under this paragraph to a party to a qualified  financial
  contract also shall be reduced by the fair market value or the amount of
  any  proceeds of collateral that secures and has been applied to satisfy
  the obligations of the foreign  banking  corporation  pursuant  to  such
  qualified  financial  contract  to  the party. In the event that netting
  under the applicable netting  agreement  or  arrangement  results  in  a
  branch/agency  net payment entitlement, notwithstanding any provision in
  any  such  contract  that  purports  to  effect  a  forfeiture  of  such
  entitlement,  the  superintendent may make written demand upon the party
  to such contract under subdivision two of section six hundred fifteen of
  this article for an amount not to exceed the lesser of  (x)  the  global
  net   payment   entitlement   and  (y)  the  branch/agency  net  payment
  entitlement. The liability of the party under this  paragraph  shall  be
  reduced   by   any   amount   otherwise  paid  to  or  received  by  the
  superintendent or any  other  liquidator  or  receiver  of  the  foreign
  banking  corporation  in  respect  of the global net payment entitlement
  pursuant to such qualified financial contract  which  if  added  to  the
  liability  of the party under this paragraph would exceed the global net
  payment entitlement. The liability of the party under this paragraph  to
  the  superintendent  pursuant  to such qualified financial contract also
  shall be reduced by the fair market value or the amount of any  proceeds
  of  collateral  that  secures  and  has  been  applied  to  satisfy  the
  obligations  of  the party pursuant to such qualified financial contract
  to the foreign banking corporation.
    (d) A party to a qualified financial contract with a  foreign  banking
  corporation,  the  branch  or  agency  of  which  the  superintendent is
  liquidating,  which  party  has  a  perfected   security   interest   in
  collateral,  or  other  valid  lien  or  security interest in collateral
  enforceable against third parties pursuant  to  a  security  arrangement
  related  to  such  qualified  financial  contract,  may  retain all such
  collateral and upon repudiation of that qualified financial contract, or
  in connection with the termination  or  liquidation  of  that  qualified
  financial  contract  in  accordance  with  its terms thereof, apply such
  collateral in satisfaction of any  claims  secured  by  the  collateral,
  provided  that  the  total  amount so applied to such claims shall in no
  event exceed the global net payment obligation, if any.
    (e) The  following  terms  shall  have  the  following  meanings:  (i)
  "qualified  financial contract" means any securities contract, commodity
  contract,  forward  contract  (including  spot   and   forward   foreign
  exchange),   repurchase  agreement,  swap  agreement,  and  any  similar
  agreement, any option to enter into any such  agreement,  including  any
  combination  of  the  foregoing,  and  any  master  agreement  for  such
  agreements  (such  master  agreement,  together  with  all   supplements
  thereto, shall be treated as one qualified financial contract), provided
  that  such  contract,  option or agreement, or combination of contracts,
  options or agreements is reflected in the books, accounts or records  of
  the  banking  organization  or  a party provides documentary evidence of
  such agreement; the superintendent may define by  regulation  securities
  contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement and
  swap  agreement,  and  may  by  regulation  or order determine any other
  agreement to be a qualified financial  contract  for  purposes  of  this
  paragraph;  (ii)  "global  net  payment obligation" means the amount, if
  any, owed by a foreign banking corporation as a whole to a  party  after
  giving  effect  to  the  netting  provisions  of  a  qualified financial
  contract with respect to all transactions subject to netting under  such
  qualified  financial  contract;  (iii)  "global net payment entitlement"
  means the amount, if any, owed by a party (or that would be owed if  the
  relevant   agreements  provided  for  payments  to  either  party,  upon
  termination thereof under  any  and  all  circumstances)  to  a  foreign
  banking  corporation  as  a  whole  after  giving  effect to the netting
  provisions of  a  qualified  financial  contract  with  respect  to  all
  transactions subject to netting under such qualified financial contract;
  (iv)  "branch/agency  net  payment  obligation"  means with respect to a
  qualified financial contact the amount, if any,  that  would  have  been
  owed  by  the  foreign banking corporation to a party after netting only
  those transactions entered into by the branch or agency and  such  party
  under  such  qualified  financial  contract;  and (v) "branch/agency net
  payment  entitlement"  means  with  respect  to  a  qualified  financial
  contract the amount, if any, that would have been owed by a party to the
  foreign  banking  corporation  after  netting  only  those  transactions
  entered into by the branch or agency and such party under such qualified
  financial contract. The superintendent shall have authority to prescribe
  such regulations relating to qualified financial contracts  and  netting
  thereof as the superintendent shall deem appropriate.
    3.  (a)  If  the  superintendent  repudiates  a  lease  of the banking
  organization for the rental of real or personal property under which the
  banking organization was a lessee, the lessor under such lease shall  be
  entitled  to  file  a claim with the superintendent for whichever is the
  least amount  of:  (i)  the  amount  designated  as  liquidated  damages
  contained  in  the  agreement  between  the banking organization and the
  lessor,  (ii)  an amount equal to one year's rent under the terms of the
  repudiated lease, or (iii) an amount equal to the rent for the remaining
  term of the lease.
    (b)  If  the  superintendent  repudiates  a  lease  of   the   banking
  organization  for  the  rental  of real property under which the banking
  organization was a lessor, and the lessee was not in default at the time
  of repudiation, the lessee under such repudiated lease  may  either  (i)
  treat  the  lease  as  terminated  by  such  repudiation  and vacate the
  premises, or (ii) remain in possession of the leasehold interest for the
  balance of the term of the lease, and for any renewal  or  extension  of
  such   term   that  is  enforceable  by  such  lessee  under  applicable
  non-insolvency law, unless the lessee defaults under the  terms  of  the
  lease  after  the  date  of  such  repudiation. If the lessee remains in
  possession of the leasehold interest, the lessee shall continue  to  pay
  to  the superintendent the contractual rent pursuant to the terms of the
  lease after the date of the repudiation of such lease,  and  may  offset
  against  such  rent  payment  any  damages  which  may accrue due to the
  nonperformance of any obligation of the banking organization  under  the
  lease  after  the  date  of repudiation. The superintendent shall not be
  liable to the lessee for any damages arising after such date as a result
  of the repudiation other than the amount of  any  offset  allowed  under
  this   subdivision.   Nothing   stated   herein   shall   prohibit   the
  superintendent from entering into a new contract with the lessee for the
  rental of the leasehold which was the subject of the repudiated lease.
    4. Except as otherwise provided, notwithstanding any provision  in  an
  unexpired  lease  or other contract, or in applicable law, a contract or
  unexpired lease of the banking organization may  not  be  terminated  or
  modified  by  any  party  other  than  the  superintendent  without  the
  concurrence of the superintendent, and any  right  or  obligation  under
  such  contract  or  lease may not be terminated or modified, at any time
  after the superintendent's taking of possession, solely  pursuant  to  a
  provision  in  such  contract  or  lease  that  is  conditioned  on  the
  superintendent's taking of  possession,  or  the  insolvency,  financial
  condition or liquidation of the banking organization.
    5.  Nothing  in  this  section  shall affect the right of a party to a
  contract of a foreign banking corporation to seek  performance  of  such
  contract  or  damages  thereon  in  any  other  jurisdiction,  provided,
  however, that the superintendent shall not be liable for the performance
  of such contract or damages thereon in any other jurisdiction.
    6. The rights granted herein are  in  addition  to  any  other  rights
  available to the superintendent under common law or any other law.


::: 618:liquidation_and_conservation_of_assets_compromising_debts_and_claims_deposit_of_moneys_collected_preference_superintendent_as_liquidator_authori.html
 
    &#167; 618.  Liquidation and conservation of assets; compromising debts and
  claims; deposit of  moneys  collected;  preference;  superintendent,  as
  liquidator,  authorized to borrow on and pledge assets of banks.  1. (a)
  The superintendent is authorized, upon taking possession of any  banking
  organization, to liquidate the affairs thereof and to do all acts and to
  make  such  expenditures  as  in  his  or  her judgment are necessary to
  conserve its assets and business. The superintendent  shall  proceed  to
  collect  the  debts  due.  The  superintendent may, upon an order of the
  supreme court (unless  such  order  is  not  required  pursuant  to  the
  provisions  of paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this subdivision), (i) sell,
  assign, compromise, or otherwise dispose of all bad  or  doubtful  debts
  held  by  such banking organization, (ii) compromise claims against such
  banking organization, other than  deposit  claims,  and  (iii)  sell  or
  otherwise  dispose  of  all  or any of the real and personal property of
  such banking organization wherever situated. In case  any  of  the  real
  property  so  sold  is  located  in  a county in this state other than a
  county in which the application to the court for leave to sell is  made,
  the  superintendent  shall  cause  a  certified copy of such order to be
  filed in the office of the clerk  of  the  county  in  which  such  real
  property is located.
    (b)  The  superintendent  may  sell,  assign,  compromise or otherwise
  dispose of any bad or doubtful debt held by  such  banking  organization
  the  value  of  which  does  not exceed fifty thousand dollars upon such
  terms as he or she may deem for  the  best  interests  of  such  banking
  organization  without  obtaining the approval of the court. For purposes
  of this paragraph, the value of any such bad or doubtful debt  shall  be
  the  current  value  thereof as determined by the superintendent in good
  faith.
    (c) The superintendent may, when the amount proposed to be paid by the
  superintendent in compromise does not  exceed  fifty  thousand  dollars,
  compromise  any  claim against such banking organization, other than any
  deposit claim, upon such terms as he  or  she  may  deem  for  the  best
  interests of such banking organization without obtaining the approval of
  the court.
    (d)  The  superintendent may sell or otherwise dispose of any personal
  property of such banking organization (other than bad or doubtful  debts
  subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph (b) of this subdivision) the
  value of which does not exceed fifty thousand dollars upon such terms as
  he or she may deem for the best interests of such  banking  organization
  without  obtaining  the  approval  of  the  court.  For purposes of this
  paragraph, the value of any  such  personal  property  of  such  banking
  organization shall be (i) in the case of any single class of a security,
  or  any  commodity,  or  other  property  or  claim  that  has a readily
  ascertainable market value, such market value, and  (ii)  in  any  other
  case,  the  current value thereof as determined by the superintendent in
  good faith.
    2. The moneys collected by the superintendent shall be: (a)  Deposited
  on  demand,  time  or  otherwise  in one or more banks, savings banks or
  trust  companies  and,  in  case  of  the  insolvency  or  voluntary  or
  involuntary  liquidation  of  the  depositary,  such  deposits  shall be
  entitled to priority of payment on an equality with any  other  priority
  given by this chapter;
    (b)  Deposited  on  demand,  time or otherwise in one or more national
  banks with its principal office located in this  state  and  with  total
  assets exceeding five billion dollars; or
    (c)  Invested  in obligations of the United States, or those for which
  the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to provide for
  the payment of interest and principal.
    3. Upon an order of the supreme court in and for the county  in  which
  the  principal  office  of  such  banking  organization  is located, the
  superintendent is authorized to borrow money and to execute, acknowledge
  and deliver notes or other evidences of  indebtedness  therefor  and  to
  secure  the  repayment  thereof  by  the mortgage, pledge, assignment in
  trust or hypothecation of any or  all  of  the  property  whether  real,
  personal or mixed of such banking organization. Money may be so borrowed
  for any one or more of the following purposes:
    (a) Facilitating liquidation;
    (b) Protecting or preserving the assets in his possession;
    (c) Declaring and paying dividends to depositors and other creditors;
    (d) Providing for the expenses of administration and liquidation;
    (e)  Aiding  in  the  reopening  or  reorganization  of  such  banking
  organization;
    (f) Aiding in the merger or consolidation of any one or more  of  such
  banking organizations which are corporations;
    (g)  Aiding  in  the  sale  of  all  of the assets of any such banking
  organization.
    The superintendent with the aforesaid order of the supreme court shall
  have power to take any and all other  action  necessary  and  proper  to
  consummate any such loans and to provide for the repayment thereof.
    The  superintendent  shall be under no obligation personally or in his
  official capacity to repay any loan made pursuant to  this  subdivision.
  The  obligation  for  the repayment of any such loan shall be solely the
  obligation of the banking organization receiving  the  benefit  of  such
  loan.


::: 619:prosecution_and_defense_of_actions_actions_preferred_limitations_power_to_execute_instruments_exemption_from_filing_and_other_fees.html
 
    &#167; 619.   Prosecution   and  defense  of  actions;  actions  preferred;
  limitations; power to execute instruments;  exemption  from  filing  and
  other  fees.  1.  (a) For the purpose of executing any of the powers and
  performing  any  of  the  duties  hereby   conferred   upon   him,   the
  superintendent  may, in the name of any banking organization of which he
  is in possession, prosecute and defend any and  all  actions.  Any  such
  action, upon application of the superintendent, shall be entitled to the
  same preference to which an action by or against a receiver appointed by
  the  court  is entitled in any court of the state. Except as provided in
  the civil practice law and rules for venue for  real  property  actions,
  all  actions  against  a  banking  organization in the possession of the
  superintendent or against the superintendent arising out of its affairs,
  shall be instituted and maintained in a court of record in the county in
  which such  banking  organization  maintained  its  principal  place  of
  business.
    (b)  If  the  superintendent  takes  possession  of  the  business and
  property of any banking organization entitled  to  maintain  an  action,
  before  the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof,
  such action may be commenced by the superintendent in the name  of  such
  banking  organization  before  the expiration of that time or within one
  year after taking such possession, whichever date is later.
    (c) Where by any  agreement  a  period  of  limitation  is  fixed  for
  instituting  an  action  upon any claim, or for presenting or filing any
  claim, proof of claim, proof of loss, demand, notice, or  the  like,  or
  where  in  any action or by statute or ordinance, a period of limitation
  is fixed for serving or filing any claim or pleading, taking any appeal,
  or doing any other act, and where in any such case such period  had  not
  expired at the date of taking possession of the business and property of
  any such banking organization, the superintendent may for the benefit of
  such  banking  organization institute any such action, serve or file any
  such claim or pleading, take any such appeal, or do any such other  act,
  required  or  permitted  to such banking organization within a period of
  one year subsequent to the date of taking of such possession, or  within
  such  further  period  as  may  be permitted by the agreement, or in the
  action, or by statute or ordinance, as the case may be.
    (d) (1) Except as provided  in  this  paragraph,  unless  the  federal
  regulator  or  insurer  is  appointed  as  receiver  or  liquidator, the
  superintendent's taking of possession of any  banking  organization  and
  the  liquidation of same shall operate as a stay of and as an injunction
  against, as of the date  the  superintendent  takes  possession  of  the
  banking organization, applicable to all persons or entities, of:
    (i)  The  commencement  or  continuation,  including  the  issuance or
  employment of process, of a judicial, administrative, or other action or
  proceeding against the banking organization that was or could have  been
  commenced before the taking of possession, or to recover a claim against
  the banking organization that arose before the taking of possession;
    (ii) The enforcement, against the banking organization or the business
  and  property  of  the banking organization in this state, of a judgment
  obtained before the taking of possession;
    (iii) Any  act  to  obtain  possession  of  property  of  the  banking
  organization or of property from the banking organization or to exercise
  control over property of the banking organization;
    (iv)  Any act to create, perfect, or enforce any lien against property
  of the banking organization;
    (v) Any act to create, perfect or  enforce  against  property  of  the
  banking  organization  any  lien  to the extent that such lien secures a
  claim that arose before the taking of possession; and
    (vi) Any act to collect,  assess,  or  recover  a  claim  against  the
  banking organization that arose before the taking of possession.
    (2)   The   superintendent's   taking   of  possession  of  a  banking
  organization and the liquidation of same does not operate as a  stay  of
  or as an injunction against:
    (i)  The  filing  of a claim pursuant to section six hundred twenty of
  this article in the liquidation of the banking organization; the  making
  of  a  demand  upon  the  superintendent pursuant to section six hundred
  eighteen-a of this article to decide whether to assume  or  repudiate  a
  contract  of  the  banking  organization;  the  exercise  of  any setoff
  otherwise  permissible  under  applicable  law  except  as  limited   by
  subdivision  two  of  section  six  hundred fifteen of this article; the
  right of any secured creditor with  a  perfected  security  interest  or
  other  valid lien or security interest enforceable against third parties
  to retain collateral, including any right of such secured creditor under
  any security arrangement related to a qualified financial  contract,  as
  defined  in  section  six  hundred eighteen-a of this article, to retain
  collateral and to apply such collateral in accordance with paragraph (d)
  of subdivision two of section six hundred eighteen-a  of  this  article;
  any  automatic termination in accordance with the terms of any qualified
  financial contract or any right to cause the termination or  liquidation
  of  any  qualified financial contract, as defined in section six hundred
  eighteen-a of this article, in accordance with the  terms  thereof;  any
  right  to  offset  or  net out any termination value, payment amount, or
  other transfer obligation arising under or in  connection  with  one  or
  more  such  qualified  financial  contracts;  or  the commencement of an
  action under section six hundred seven of  this  article  or  any  other
  action  relating  to  the  liquidation  before the supreme court justice
  overseeing the liquidation of the banking organization;
    (ii)  The  commencement  or  continuation  of  a  criminal  action  or
  proceeding against the banking organization;
    (iii) The commencement or continuation of an action or proceeding by a
  governmental   unit  to  enforce  such  governmental  unit's  police  or
  regulatory power;
    (iv) The enforcement of a  judgment,  other  than  a  money  judgment,
  obtained  in  an  action or proceeding by a governmental unit to enforce
  such governmental unit's police or regulatory power;
    (v) The issuance to the banking organization by a governmental unit of
  a notice of tax deficiency; and
    (vi)  The  commencement  or  continuation  of  a  judicial  action  or
  proceeding  by a secured creditor with a perfected security interest, or
  other valid lien or security interest enforceable against third parties,
  including  any  right  of  such  secured  creditor  under  any  security
  arrangement  related  to  a  qualified financial contract, as defined in
  section six hundred eighteen-a of this article, to enforce such security
  interest or lien.
    (3) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph:
    (i) The stay or enjoining of an act against property  of  the  banking
  organization  under this paragraph shall continue until such property is
  no longer the property  of  the  superintendent  in  possession  of  the
  banking organization; and
    (ii) The stay or enjoining of any other act under this paragraph shall
  continue  until the superintendent has concluded liquidating the banking
  organization.
    (4) For good cause shown, on request of a party in interest and  after
  notice   and  a  hearing,  the  supreme  court  justice  overseeing  the
  liquidation may grant relief from the stay or injunction provided  under
  this   paragraph,  such  as  by  terminating,  annulling,  modifying  or
  conditioning such stay or injunction.
    (5)  In  the  case  of  any  willful violation of a stay or injunction
  provided in this paragraph by any person or entity who has knowledge  of
  the  superintendent's  taking  of possession of the banking organization
  that is the subject of the stay or injunction, the superintendent  shall
  recover  actual  damages,  including  costs  and attorneys' fees and, in
  appropriate circumstances, may recover punitive damages.
    (e) No action against the superintendent, his or her deputies, special
  deputies,  attorneys,  agents  or  employees,  or  against   a   banking
  organization  whose business and property have been taken over by him or
  her, with  respect  to  any  matter  arising  out  of  the  liquidation,
  administration, distribution or other disposition by or on behalf of the
  superintendent
    (i) of the estate of such banking organization, or
    (ii)  of  money  or property in its possession or under its control as
  executor, administrator, trustee, guardian, committee,  conservator,  or
  other  fiduciary  capacity,  or as bailee, pledgee, depository, agent or
  otherwise, or
    (iii) of money or property in or removed from a safe, vault or box  of
  which  it  is or was the lessor, shall be commenced subsequent to either
  (a) three years after the accrual of such cause of action,  or  (b)  the
  expiration  of  such period of limitation as may be otherwise applicable
  thereto under the provisions of any other statute, whichever  period  is
  shorter.  A cause of action shall be deemed to accrue within the meaning
  of this paragraph, when the facts upon which such  cause  of  action  is
  based  come into existence. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to
  extend or otherwise affect the  period  of  limitation  in  section  six
  hundred  twenty-five  of this article provided with respect to claims or
  causes of action therein referred to.
    2. (a) The superintendent may, in the name of any banking organization
  of which he is in possession, execute, acknowledge and deliver  any  and
  all   deeds,   assignments,   bills   of   sale,  releases,  extensions,
  satisfactions and other instruments necessary and proper  to  effectuate
  any  sale,  lease  or  transfer of real or personal property or to carry
  into effect any power conferred or duty imposed upon him by this article
  or by order of the supreme court. Any instrument  executed  pursuant  to
  the  authority  hereby  given  shall  be  as valid and effectual for all
  purposes as though executed by the officers of the banking organization.
    (b) The superintendent shall not be required to pay  any  fee  to  any
  clerk,  sheriff,  register or other public officer for entering, filing,
  docketing,  registering,   recording,   executing,   issuing   a   copy,
  transcript, extract or certificate of, or authenticating or exemplifying
  any  paper,  record  or  instrument  pertaining  to  the exercise by the
  superintendent of any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon him
  by any of the provisions of this article, whether  or  not  such  paper,
  record  or  instrument  be executed by the superintendent and whether or
  not it is connected with an action.
    3. The word "action" contained in this section and section six hundred
  twenty-five of this article is to be construed as  including  a  special
  proceeding  or any proceeding therein or in an action. A cause of action
  upon which an  action  cannot  be  maintained,  as  prescribed  in  this
  article,  cannot  be  effectually  interposed  as  a defense, set-off or
  counterclaim.


::: 620-a:certain_claims_shall_not_be_accepted.html
 
    &#167; 620-a.  Certain  claims  shall  not  be accepted. The superintendent
  shall not accept  a  claim  based  on  an  agreement  with  the  banking
  organization  unless  the agreement is either reflected on the accounts,
  books or records of the banking  organization  or  a  creditor  provides
  documentary evidence of such agreement. The superintendent may issue any
  regulations determined to be necessary to implement this section.


::: 620:notice_to_creditors_to_make_proof_of_claims_form_of_claims_claims_for_priority_of_payment.html
 
    &#167; 620.  Notice  to  creditors to make proof of claims; form of claims;
  claims for priority of payment.  1. When the superintendent  shall  have
  taken  possession of any banking organization, and shall have determined
  to liquidate its affairs, he or she shall notify  all  persons  who  may
  have  claims against such banking organization to present such claims to
  him or her and make proper proof thereof within  four  months  from  the
  date of such notice and at a place specified therein; provided, that (a)
  if  the superintendent finds that a shorter period than four months will
  afford a reasonable time for presenting claims and making proof thereof,
  he or she may specify such shorter period which shall  in  no  event  be
  less  than  thirty days or (b) if the superintendent finds that a longer
  period than four months is  needed  to  afford  a  reasonable  time  for
  presenting  claims  and making proof thereof, he or she may specify such
  longer period which shall in no event be more than six months  from  the
  date  of  such  notice. In any event the superintendent shall specify in
  such notice the last date for presenting claims  and  for  making  proof
  thereof.  The superintendent shall cause such notice to be mailed to all
  persons whose names appear as creditors upon the books  of  the  banking
  organization.  Such  notice  to persons appearing as depositors shall be
  mailed to the address appearing upon the deposit records  or  ledger  of
  such  banking  organization.  The  superintendent  shall also cause such
  notice to be inserted biweekly in such newspaper or newspapers as he  or
  she may direct for three consecutive months, the first insertion thereof
  to  be published more than ninety days before the last day fixed in such
  notice for presenting proof of claims; provided, that where  the  notice
  requires  claims  to  be  presented  within  less  than four months, the
  superintendent shall cause such notice to be  inserted  weekly  in  such
  newspaper  or  newspapers  as he or she may direct for three consecutive
  weeks, the first insertion thereof to be published more than  twenty-one
  days  before  the  last  day fixed in such notice for presenting claims.
  Such notice shall specify that all persons having claims for priority of
  payment shall make demand in writing for priority in the proof of  their
  claims.  The  superintendent  shall  have  no  power to accept any claim
  presented after the date specified in such notice as the last  date  for
  presenting claims.
    2.  A  proof  of claim shall consist of a written statement under oath
  signed by the claimant or his attorney in fact, and  shall  be  in  such
  form as the superintendent shall require.
    3.  All persons who shall have failed to demand in writing priority of
  payment as specified in the notice to file claims  shall  be  deemed  to
  have  waived  and  abandoned  any  right to such priority of payment. No
  person who shall have failed to demand in writing priority of payment as
  herein above provided, shall be  entitled  to  maintain  any  action  or
  proceeding  for  any  priority of payment. In all actions or proceedings
  for priority of payment, the claimant shall be required  to  allege  and
  prove  that the claim upon which the action is instituted was duly filed
  and contained therein demand in writing for priority of payment.


::: 622:list_of_claims_duly_presented_filing.html
 
    &#167; 622.  List  of  claims  duly presented; filing.   The superintendent
  shall cause to be made in duplicate a complete list of all  claims  duly
  presented  specifying  the name of the claimant, the nature of the claim
  and the amount thereof. Such list shall  also  contain  a  statement  of
  accounts  payable  as  shown by the books and records and as to which no
  claims have been presented, specifying the name of each person  to  whom
  such an account appears to be payable, the nature of the debt and amount
  thereof.  Within  sixty  days after the last date fixed in the notice to
  creditors to present and make proof of claims, the superintendent  shall
  file one copy of such list in his office, and cause one copy to be filed
  with  the  supreme court in the judicial district in which the principal
  office of such banking organization is located.


::: 623:filing_objections_to_claims_presented_or_listed_procedure_upon_claim_under_objection.html
 
    &#167; 623. Filing objections to claims presented or listed; procedure upon
  claim  under objection. Within forty days after the superintendent shall
  have filed in his office a copy  of  the  list  of  claims  required  by
  section  six  hundred twenty-two, objections to any claim duly presented
  or to any account appearing on such  list  may  be  made  by  any  party
  interested,  by  filing  with  the  superintendent  such  objections  in
  writing,  signed  by  the  objector  and  duly  verified.   Unless   the
  superintendent  rejects  any  claim or accounts to which objections have
  been duly filed with him, he shall, within sixty days after the time  to
  file  such  objections  has  expired,  apply  to the supreme court, upon
  notice to the objector, for an order directing the superintendent as  to
  the  disposition  of  such  claim  or  account.  The court may thereupon
  dispose of such objections or may order a reference for that purpose.


::: 624:acceptance_and_rejection_of_claims_and_accounts_filing_of_list_thereof_secured_claims_and_accounts_determination_of_priorities.html
 
    &#167; 624. Acceptance and rejection of claims and accounts; filing of list
  thereof;  secured  claims  and accounts; determination of priorities. 1.
  The superintendent shall, not later than sixty days after the  time  has
  expired  to  file objections to claims duly presented, accept or reject,
  in whole or in part, every duly filed claim except claims  as  to  which
  objections  are  still  pending  undetermined by the court and accept or
  reject, in whole or in part, every account payable as shown by the books
  and records and as to which no claim has been presented except  accounts
  as  to  which  objections  are  still pending undetermined by the court.
  Whenever the superintendent accepts a portion of a claim or account  and
  rejects  the  remainder,  the  portion accepted and the portion rejected
  shall, for the purposes of this article, each be deemed separate  claims
  or accounts as the case may be.
    2.  No  claim  or account of any secured claimant or creditor shall be
  accepted at a sum greater than the difference between the value  of  the
  claim  or  account without security and the value of the security itself
  as of the commencement  of  the  liquidation,  unless  the  claimant  or
  creditor  shall,  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  time fixed by the
  superintendent for the presentation of claims, surrender his security to
  the superintendent, in which event the claim or account may be  accepted
  in the full amount for which it is valued.
    3. Every claim or account payable accepted by the superintendent shall
  be  endorsed  "accepted"  and  filed  so  endorsed in his office. If the
  superintendent is unable, from the books, accounts  or  records  of  the
  banking  organization,  to determine the ownership of a claim or account
  payable or if for any other reason he doubts the justice or validity  of
  any  claim  or  account  payable,  he shall reject such claim or account
  payable and shall endorse the same "rejected" and file it as so endorsed
  in his office.  He shall cause notice of such acceptance or rejection to
  be mailed within fourteen calendar days  after  the  superintendent  has
  accepted  or  rejected all claims duly filed. Where a proof of claim has
  been filed, such notice need be mailed only  to  the  address  appearing
  thereon, and where no proof of claim has been filed, only to the address
  appearing  upon  the  books of the banking organization. Where, however,
  the superintendent is unable from the proof of claim or  the  books  and
  records  of the banking organization to identify a name or address, such
  notice of rejection need not be given.
    4. Within  thirty  days  after  the  superintendent  has  accepted  or
  rejected all claims duly filed, and all accounts payable as shown by the
  books  and  records  as to which no claims have been presented, he shall
  make a list of all such claims and accounts accepted or rejected by  him
  and  file  one  copy thereof in his office and one copy with the supreme
  court in the judicial district in which the  principal  office  of  such
  banking organization is located.
    5.  The superintendent shall not determine priorities, in accepting or
  rejecting claims and the acceptance by the superintendent of a claim  in
  which  priority of payment is demanded shall not entitle the claimant to
  priority. Accepted claims in which priority of payment is duly  demanded
  shall  be  presented  to the supreme court on notice to the claimant for
  determination as to their priority of payment. All  claims  entitled  to
  priority of payment shall be paid ratably and proportionately.


::: 625:effect_of_accepting_claims_and_accounts_limitation_upon_actions_to_establish_claims_and_accounts_necessary_allegations_effect_of_judgment.html
 
    &#167; 625.  Effect  of  accepting  claims  and  accounts;  limitation upon
  actions to establish claims and accounts; necessary allegations;  effect
  of  judgment. 1. When the superintendent has accepted a duly filed claim
  and has  filed  such  claim  endorsed  "accepted"  in  his  office,  the
  claimant,  unless  priority  of payment has been duly demanded, and such
  claim is entitled by law to priority of payment, shall  be  entitled  to
  share  ratably  with  other general creditors in the distribution of the
  proceeds of the liquidation of the assets of such  banking  organization
  as  such  proceeds  are  distributed  pursuant  to  section  six hundred
  twenty-seven of this article, provided, however, that any accepted claim
  or claims for taxes owed to any taxing authority shall be paid in  full,
  to  the  extent  that  assets of the banking organization are available,
  prior to the payment of any other accepted claim. Where the claimant has
  duly demanded priority of payment, and such claim is entitled by law  to
  priority  of  payment,  the  receipt and acceptance of ratable dividends
  shall be without prejudice to the right to such priority of payment.
    2. When the superintendent has accepted an account payable as shown by
  the books and records and as to which no claim has  been  presented  and
  included the same in the list filed in his office as provided in section
  six  hundred  twenty-four  of  this  article, the owner thereof shall be
  entitled  to  share  ratably  with  other  general  creditors   in   the
  distribution  of  the  proceeds of the liquidation of the assets of such
  banking organization  as  such  proceeds  are  distributed  pursuant  to
  section six hundred twenty-seven of this article.
    3.  Within six months after the date that the superintendent files the
  list required by subdivision four of section six hundred twenty-four  of
  this  article  listing  the  claims  and  accounts  payable  accepted or
  rejected by the superintendent, a claimant whose  claim  has  been  duly
  filed  and  has  not  been accepted by the superintendent, or any person
  whose account payable as shown by the books and records, as to which  no
  claim  has  been presented, has not been accepted by the superintendent,
  may institute and  maintain  an  action  thereon  against  such  banking
  organization. Such action may be maintained only in the supreme court in
  the  judicial  district  in  which  the principal office of such banking
  organization was located.
    4. No action shall be maintained  against  such  banking  organization
  while  the  superintendent  is in possession of its affairs and business
  unless brought  within  the  period  of  limitation  specified  in  this
  section.  In  all  actions  instituted against such banking organization
  while the superintendent is in possession of its property and  business,
  the  plaintiff shall be required to allege and prove that the claim upon
  which the action is instituted was duly filed and that  such  claim  has
  not  been  accepted,  or  in the case of an action upon an account as to
  which no claim has been presented the plaintiff  shall  be  required  to
  allege  and  prove that such account appeared upon the books and records
  and that such account has not been accepted.
    5. If, in an action instituted in accordance with  this  section,  the
  court  should  determine  that  a  claim  or  account  rejected  by  the
  superintendent should be allowed, the judgment entered therein shall  so
  provide  and  shall  fix and determine the amount thereof as of the date
  the superintendent took possession. A claim or account whose status  and
  amount  have  been  so  fixed  shall have the same force and effect as a
  claim or account which  has  been  accepted  by  the  superintendent  in
  accordance  with  the  provisions  of section six hundred twenty-four of
  this article. Notwithstanding any other  provision  of  law,  the  court
  shall  not award interest, nor shall interest accrue, in any such action
  at a rate greater than the amount rate of interest,  if  any,  that  the
  superintendent  has  determined  is payable to other creditors; provided
  further that the court shall not  award  interest,  nor  shall  interest
  accrue,   except  from  the  date  from  which  the  superintendent  has
  determined to pay interest to creditors whose claims or accounts payable
  have been accepted or otherwise duly established to the date such claims
  or  accounts  are  paid;  provided,  however,  that the court may in its
  discretion award interest at a rate not to exceed the rate permitted  by
  section  six  hundred  twenty-seven of this article on any such judgment
  for the claimant in any such action for the period from  the  date  such
  claim  would  have  been  paid  had  it  been  accepted initially by the
  superintendent to the date such judgment is paid.


::: 626:judgments_recovered_shall_not_be_liens.html
 
    &#167; 626. Judgments recovered shall not be liens. A lien shall not attach
  to  any  of the property or assets of any banking organization by reason
  of the entry of any judgment recovered against such banking organization
  after the superintendent  has  taken  possession  of  its  property  and
  business and so long as such possession continues.


::: 627:dividends_to_creditors_distributions_to_stockholders_dissolution_destruction_of_documents.html
 
    &#167; 627.   Dividends   to   creditors;  distributions  to  stockholders;
  dissolution; destruction of documents. 1. At any  time  after  the  date
  fixed  by  the  superintendent  for  the  presentation  of  claims,  the
  superintendent may, upon an order of the supreme court, declare and  pay
  out  of  the  funds  remaining  in his or her hands after the payment of
  expenses, one or more dividends to creditors whose  claims  or  accounts
  payable  have  been  accepted  or  otherwise  duly  established.  If the
  superintendent intends to declare and pay  more  than  one  dividend  to
  creditors,  at  the  time  he  or  she  declares and pays out such first
  dividend to creditors, the superintendent may pay in full  those  claims
  and  accounts payable that were accepted, or otherwise duly established,
  in an amount that is less than one hundred dollars;  provided,  however,
  that  this  sentence  shall  not  be construed as a right to priority of
  payment; and provided further, that if the superintendent  will  not  be
  able  to  satisfy  in  full  all other creditors with accepted claims or
  accounts payable either in the first or succeeding dividends, then  such
  payment  may  not be made. After a dividend or dividends aggregating one
  hundred per centum of the  principal  amount  of  all  such  claims  and
  accounts  payable  shall  have  been paid or set apart, and if funds are
  available therefor, a  further  dividend  or  dividends  on  account  of
  interest  accruing,  on  such claims and accounts payable, subsequent to
  the commencement of the liquidation may, at the sole discretion  of  the
  superintendent,  be paid to the creditors entitled thereto at a rate not
  to exceed four per centum per annum, but nothing herein shall be  deemed
  to  create  any right to interest which would not otherwise accrue or be
  payable. No creditor shall be entitled to receive nor be  paid  interest
  on  any  dividend  or  dividends  by  reason of delay in payment of such
  dividend or dividends. Dividends remaining unclaimed or  unpaid  in  the
  hands  of  the  superintendent  for  six months after payment of a final
  dividend, shall be deposited as provided in article two of this  chapter
  except  that  if,  after  payment of such a dividend, the liquidation is
  continued in accordance with the provisions of subdivision two  of  this
  section,  then  such dividends shall be so deposited simultaneously with
  the like deposit of unclaimed or unpaid distributive amounts pursuant to
  the provisions of such subdivision at the expiration of six months after
  a final distribution.
    2. Whenever the superintendent shall have (a) paid to,  or  set  apart
  for,  each  creditor  of  any  stock  corporation whose claim or account
  payable has been accepted or otherwise duly established, a  dividend  or
  dividends  aggregating  the full amount of such claim or account payable
  together with interest thereon, and (b) set aside  proper  reserves  for
  claims and accounts payable in litigation and not finally determined and
  for such other purposes as in the discretion of the superintendent shall
  be necessary or desirable, and (c) paid all the expenses of liquidation,
  the  superintendent  shall,  if  there be assets remaining in his or her
  hands, continue the liquidation of the affairs of such  corporation  and
  after  paying  the  expenses  thereof, distribute the proceeds, together
  with any part of the foregoing reserves not  finally  necessary  to  pay
  creditors  and  expenses  in  full, among the persons equitably entitled
  thereto according to their respective rights and interests and  in  such
  manner  and  upon such notice as may be directed by order of the supreme
  court. Any such distributive amounts remaining unpaid  or  unclaimed  in
  the   hands   of  the  superintendent  for  six  months  after  a  final
  distribution shall be deposited by the  superintendent  as  provided  in
  article two of this chapter.
    3.   Upon   the  petition  by  the  superintendent  showing  that  the
  liquidation of a corporate banking organization of which  he  has  taken
  possession  has been completed and upon such notice as the supreme court
  may prescribe, the court may, on such terms as justice requires, make an
  order declaring such corporation dissolved and the  corporate  existence
  thereof terminated. Upon the filing of a certified copy of such order in
  the  office  of  the  superintendent,  the existence of such corporation
  shall cease and determine.
    4.  Any  records,  documents  and  correspondence   of   any   banking
  organization  of  which  the superintendent has taken possession and any
  records,  documents  and  correspondence   in   the   custody   of   the
  superintendent  relating to the liquidation of such banking organization
  may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at such time or times  and  in
  such manner as the supreme court by order may authorize.


::: 628:payment_of_dividends_when_deposits_have_been_made_available_by_federal_deposit_insurance_corporation.html
 
    &#167; 628.  Payment of dividends when deposits have been made available by
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  When  the  superintendent  shall
  have  taken  possession  of  any banking organization for the purpose of
  liquidation, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall  have  made
  available  to  the  depositors  thereof  the amounts of their respective
  deposits insured by such corporation, he shall  be  authorized,  without
  requiring  assignments  from depositors, to pay to such corporation such
  dividends on account of such insured deposits as such  depositors  would
  be  entitled  to  receive  had their deposits not been made available to
  them by such corporation.


::: 629:payment_of_dividends_to_minors_trustees_or_joint_depositors_payment_of_dividends_where_adverse_claim_is_asserted_interpleader_in_certain_actions.html
 
    &#167; 629.  Payment  of dividends to minors, trustees or joint depositors;
  payment of dividends where adverse claim is  asserted;  interpleader  in
  certain  actions.  1. Where a claim or an account payable in the name of
  any minor has been accepted by  the  superintendent,  dividends  thereon
  shall be paid to such minor and the receipt or acquittance of such minor
  shall   be   a  valid  and  sufficient  release  and  discharge  to  the
  superintendent.
    5. Notice to the superintendent of an adverse interest in a  claim  or
  account  payable  accepted  by  the  superintendent to the credit of any
  person shall not be effectual to cause the superintendent  to  recognize
  said  adverse  claimant  unless  said adverse claimant shall also either
  procure a restraining order, injunction  or  other  appropriate  process
  against  said superintendent from a court of competent jurisdiction in a
  cause therein instituted by him wherein the person to whose credit  said
  claim  or  account payable was accepted or his executor or administrator
  is made a party and served  with  summons,  or  shall  execute  to  said
  superintendent,  in  form  and  with sureties acceptable to him, a bond,
  indemnifying the  superintendent  from  any  and  all  liability,  loss,
  damage,  costs  and  expenses,  for  and  on  account  of the payment of
  dividends to such adverse claimant.
    6. (a) In all actions or proceedings  against  the  superintendent  to
  recover  dividends  on  claims or accounts payable accepted, if there be
  any person or persons, not parties to the action, who  claim  the  fund,
  the  court  in  which  the  action or proceeding is pending, may, on the
  motion of the superintendent, make an  order  amending  the  proceedings
  making  such  claimants  parties thereto; and the court shall thereafter
  proceed to determine the rights and interests of the several parties  to
  such  funds. The remedy provided in this section shall be in addition to
  and not exclusive of that provided in any other interpleader provision.
    (b) The dividends which are the subject of such an action  may  remain
  with the superintendent to the credit of the action until final judgment
  therein  and shall not be entitled to interest, and shall be paid by the
  superintendent in accordance with the final judgment of  the  court;  or
  the  dividends  in controversy may be paid into court to await the final
  determination of the action and when the dividend or  dividends  are  so
  paid  into  court the superintendent shall be stricken out as a party to
  the action and his liability shall cease.
    (c) The costs in all actions against  the  superintendent  to  recover
  dividends  shall  be  in the discretion of the court, and may be charged
  upon the fund affected by the action.
    7. In case the  superintendent  is  in  doubt  concerning  the  person
  entitled  to  receive  payment of any dividend, or there are conflicting
  claims thereto, he may require of the claimant an order of  the  supreme
  court authorizing and directing the payment thereof, but for any payment
  made  by  him  in good faith, by check or order, payable to the claimant
  appearing from the records in his office  to  be  entitled  thereto,  he
  shall  be  held  harmless  and  shall  not  be  liable to any subsequent
  claimant.


::: 630:claims_of_shareholders_and_members_of_credit_unions_and_savings_and_loan_associations.html
 
    &#167; 630. Claims of shareholders and members of credit unions and savings
  and  loan  associations. For the purposes of sections six hundred six to
  six hundred thirty-one, both  inclusive,  of  this  chapter,  the  terms
  "depositors"  and "creditors" shall be deemed to include shareholders or
  members of a credit union or savings and loan association, and the terms
  "claims, " "accounts payable, " "deposits" and "deposit accounts"  shall
  be deemed to include the liability of a credit union or savings and loan
  association  to  such  shareholders  or members, provided, however, that
  nothing contained in this section shall in any way affect  any  priority
  over  such  shareholders  or  members to which any general creditor of a
  credit union or savings and loan association would be  entitled  in  the
  absence  of  this  section,  and provided further that the provisions of
  subdivision two of section six hundred twenty of this chapter shall  not
  apply to the claims of creditors entitled to such priority.


::: 631:actions_against_directors_trustees_managers_or_officers_for_violation_of_their_official_duties.html
 
    &#167; 631.  Actions  against directors, trustees, managers or officers for
  violation of their official duties. At any time while the superintendent
  is in possession of the property and business of any corporation, he may
  within six years after the cause of action  has  accrued  institute  and
  maintain in his name as superintendent of financial services against its
  directors, trustees, managers or officers, or any of them, any action or
  proceeding which is vested in such corporation or in the stockholders or
  creditors thereof.


::: 633:service_of_notice_or_process_during_time_of_war.html
 
    &#167; 633.  Service  of  notice  or process during time of war.  Whenever,
  pursuant to the provisions of this article, any communication, notice or
  other paper or process  is  required  to  be  given  or  served  by  the
  superintendent  upon  any person and the giving or service thereof is in
  any manner prohibited by the provisions of the act of congress, known as
  the "Trading with the Enemy Act,"  or  any  amendment  thereof,  or  the
  rules,  regulations  or  licenses  issued pursuant thereto, or any other
  law,  rule,  regulation  or  license  pursuant  to  law  prohibiting  or
  regulating  the  same,  such  communication,  notice  or  other paper or
  process shall be deemed to have been duly given or served on such person
  if given or served  on  his  behalf,  in  the  manner  provided  in  the
  pertinent provisions of this article, on the alien property custodian or
  on  such  other  officer as may have been appointed or designated by the
  president of the United States of America  to  take  possession  of  the
  property  of  alien enemies. This section shall apply whether or not (1)
  such alien property custodian or other officer shall actually have taken
  possession of any property of such person, or (2) the president,  or  an
  officer  duly  designated  by  him  for  the  purpose,  has the power to
  authorize or license the giving or service of  any  such  communication,
  notice  or  other paper or process, and nothing herein shall require the
  superintendent to apply to  the  president  or  such  officer  for  such
  authority  or  license,  provided,  however,  that  in any case where it
  appears that at the time such communication, notice or  other  paper  or
  process is required to be given or served, the president or such officer
  has actually authorized or licensed the giving or service of same in the
  manner  provided  in the pertinent provisions of this article, then this
  section shall not apply and the superintendent shall be required to give
  or serve such communication, notice or other paper or  process  on  such
  person in accordance with such authorization or license.


::: 634:power_to_appoint_regulator_or_insurer_as_receiver_additional_powers.html
 
    &#167; 634.  Power  to appoint regulator or insurer as receiver; additional
  powers. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in  this  chapter,  the
  superintendent  may,  in his or her sole discretion, and upon such terms
  and conditions as the superintendent may approve, appoint as receiver or
  liquidator of any banking organization or branch or agency of a  foreign
  banking   corporation,   the   business   and   property  of  which  the
  superintendent has taken or is entitled to take possession,  the  Office
  of  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  the  Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the successor  or
  assignee of any of the foregoing, or such other regulator, or insurer of
  deposits  or  shares  as may be empowered by federal law to receive such
  appointment. Any regulator or insurer which accepts such appointment may
  act without bond or other security as to such appointment and shall have
  and possess, and may exercise, all the  rights,  powers  and  privileges
  provided  by  the laws of this state to the superintendent in his or her
  capacity as, or to any  other,  receiver  or  liquidator  of  a  banking
  organization  or branch or agency of a foreign banking corporation. Upon
  the payment to any depositor or shareholder of a banking organization or
  branch or agency of a foreign  banking  corporation,  the  regulator  or
  insurer  shall  be  subrogated  to  all  the rights of such depositor or
  shareholder to the extent of such payment.
    In addition to such other powers as he or she may possess  under  law,
  the   superintendent,   or   any  regulator  or  insurer  which  accepts
  appointment in accordance with the  provisions  of  this  section,  may,
  without  obtaining  the  approval  of  stockholders, shareholders or any
  court, sell, transfer, assign, consolidate or otherwise dispose  of  all
  or  any  part  of  the  assets,  real  and personal, including fiduciary
  relationships, of the banking organization, or branch or agency  of  the
  foreign  banking  corporation, to another banking organization, national
  bank, branch or agency of a foreign banking corporation, federal savings
  bank, federal savings and loan association or federal credit union or to
  such regulator or insurer, its successor or assignee, on such  terms  as
  may   be   determined  to  be  in  the  best  interests  of  depositors,
  shareholders  and  other  creditors.   In   connection   therewith   the
  superintendent  may,  in addition, and without obtaining court approval,
  borrow from such regulator or insurer any amount necessary to facilitate
  the assumption of deposit liabilities by any other  banking  institution
  and  assign  any  part or all of the assets of a banking organization or
  branch or agency of a foreign banking corporation as security  for  such
  loan.


::: 635:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 635.  Definitions.  1.  "Person"  when used in this article means an
  individual, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association,  joint
  stock association, trust or other group, however organized.
    2.  "License"  when used in this article means any license duly issued
  by the superintendent  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  article  nine,
  nine-A,  eleven-B,  twelve-B,  twelve-C,  twelve-D or thirteen-B of this
  chapter or any registration certificate  issued  by  the  superintendent
  pursuant to the provisions of article twelve-D of this chapter.
    3.  "Licensee"  when  used  in  this article means any person issued a
  license.


::: 636:when_superintendent_may_take_possession_of_license_when_possession_may_be_surrendered.html
 
    &#167; 636.  When  superintendent  may  take  possession  of  license; when
  possession may  be  surrendered.  1.  The  superintendent  may,  in  his
  discretion,  forthwith  take  possession of the business and property of
  any licensee which is used in the business  for  which  the  license  is
  granted  whenever  it  shall  appear  to  the superintendent that in the
  conduct of the business for which it has received a license, a clear and
  present danger exists to the public because such licensee:
    (a) Is conducting its business in a manner which  is  unauthorized  or
  unsafe  or  which  might  render its further operations hazardous to the
  public;
    (b) Is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business;
    (c) Cannot with safety and expediency continue business;
    (d) Has an impairment of its capital, has assets insufficient  to  pay
  its  debts  and obligations, or is otherwise unable to pay its debts and
  obligations as they mature;
    (e) Has suspended payment of some or all of its debts and obligations;
    (f) Has neglected or refused to comply with the terms of a duly issued
  order of the superintendent;
    (g) Has refused, upon proper demand, to submit its records and affairs
  for inspection to an examiner of the department; or
    (h) Has refused, or any of its officers, directors  or  partners  have
  refused, to be examined under oath regarding its affairs.
    2.  When  the  superintendent  shall have duly taken possession of the
  business and property of any such licensee, he may hold such  possession
  until  its  affairs  are  finally  liquidated  by  him, unless, he shall
  surrender possession as provided in subdivision three of this section, a
  receiver is appointed by the  supreme  court  pursuant  to  section  six
  hundred  thirty-seven  of  this  article to liquidate the affairs of the
  licensee, or he is enjoined from continuing possession  as  provided  in
  section six hundred thirty-eight of this article.
    3. The superintendent may, in his discretion, and upon such conditions
  as may be approved by him, surrender possession and permit such licensee
  to resume business.


::: 637:powers_of_superintendent_in_possession_application_for_receiver.html
 
    &#167; 637.   Powers  of  superintendent  in  possession;  application  for
  receiver. 1.  When  the  superintendent  has  taken  possession  of  the
  business  and  property  of  a licensee, he shall liquidate or otherwise
  deal with such business and property in accordance with  the  provisions
  of  article  thirteen  of  this  chapter  applicable  to the possession,
  liquidation and conservation of the business and property of  a  banking
  organization.
    2.  Whenever  the  superintendent has taken possession of the business
  and property of a licensee, he may, in  his  discretion,  apply  to  the
  supreme  court  in  the  judicial  district  in  which  such  licensee's
  principal office is  located  for  the  appointment  of  a  receiver  to
  liquidate  or  otherwise  deal  with  the  affairs  of the licensee. Any
  receiver which accepts such appointment may act without  bond  or  other
  security  as  to  such  appointment  and shall have and possess, and may
  exercise, all the rights, powers and privileges provided by this article
  to the superintendent or by the laws of this state to the superintendent
  in his capacity as, or to any other, receiver or liquidator of a banking
  organization.


::: 638:manner_and_time_within_which_taking_possession_may_be_tested.html
 
    &#167; 638.  Manner  and time within which taking possession may be tested.
  At  any  time  within  ten  days  after  the  superintendent  has  taken
  possession  of  the business and property of any licensee, such licensee
  may apply to the supreme court in the judicial  district  in  which  its
  principal  office  is located, for an order requiring the superintendent
  to show cause why  he  should  not  be  enjoined  from  continuing  such
  possession.   The   court   may,  upon  good  cause  shown,  direct  the
  superintendent to refrain from further proceedings and to surrender such
  possession.


::: 639:severability.html
 
    &#167; 639.  Severability.  If  any  provision  of  this  article,  or  the
  application of such provision to any person  or  circumstance  shall  be
  held invalid, the remainder of this article, and the application of such
  provision  to  persons  or circumstances other than those to which it is
  held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 640:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 640.  Definitions.  In  this  article, unless the context or subject
  matter otherwise requires:
    1.   "Person"   means   an   individual,   partnership,   corporation,
  association,  joint  stock  association,  trust  or other group, however
  organized.
    2. "Licensee" means any person duly  licensed  by  the  superintendent
  pursuant to this article.
    3.  "Check"  means  any  check, draft, travelers check, money order or
  other instrument for the transmission or payment of money.
    4.  "purchaser",  "holder",  "New  York  instrument"  and  "New   York
  traveler's  check"  shall  have the respective meanings ascribed to such
  terms by section six hundred fifty-three of this chapter.
    5. "Payment instrument" means any check, draft, money order, or  other
  instrument or order for the transmission or payment of money, whether or
  not  such  instrument  or  order  is negotiable, and sold to one or more
  persons. "Payment instrument" does not include a traveler's  check,  any
  instrument which is redeemable by the issuer in merchandise or services,
  a  letter  of  credit  or  a  permissible  investment as defined in this
  section.
    6. "Outstanding payment instruments" means unpaid payment  instruments
  sold anywhere in the United States and whose sale has been reported to a
  licensee.
    7.  "Traveler's  check"  means  an instrument, regardless of its form,
  specifically identified on the instrument  as  a  traveler's  check  and
  issued in either written form, with a provision for a specimen signature
  of  the  purchaser  to  be  completed  at  the  time  of  purchase and a
  counter-signature of the purchaser to be completed at the  time  of  its
  negotiation,  or  in electronic form with a provision for the electronic
  equivalent  of  the  specimen  signature  and  counter   signature.   An
  instrument  shall not be identified as a traveler's check if it fails to
  comply, as the case may  be,  with  either  the  written  or  electronic
  signature requirements of this subdivision.
    8. "Outstanding traveler's checks" means unpaid traveler's checks sold
  anywhere  in  the  United  States  and whose sale has been reported to a
  licensee.
    9. "Permissible investments" means:
    (i) cash;
    (ii) certificates of deposit or other debt instruments of a commercial
  bank;
    (iii) bills of exchange or time drafts drawn  on  and  accepted  by  a
  commercial  bank,  otherwise  known  as  bankers  acceptances, which are
  eligible for purchase by member banks of the federal reserve system;
    (iv) commercial paper of prime quality  as  defined  by  a  nationally
  recognized organization which rates such securities;
    * (v)  interest-bearing  bills,  notes,  bonds,  debentures  or  other
  obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States or  any  state  or
  other local governmental entity or any agent or instrumentality thereof,
  bearing  a  rating  of  one  of the three highest grades by a nationally
  recognized  investment  service  organization  that  has  been   engaged
  regularly  in rating state and municipal issues for a period of not less
  than five years;
    * NB Effective until notification of the superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * (v)  interest-bearing  bills,  notes,  bonds,  debentures  or  other
  obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States or  any  state  or
  other local governmental entity or any agent or instrumentality thereof,
  which  meet  the standards of creditworthiness established by regulation
  by the superintendent;
    * NB Effective upon notification of the  superintendent  of  financial
  services
    * (vi)  interest-bearing  bills, notes, bonds, debentures or preferred
  stock traded on any  national  securities  exchange  or  on  a  national
  over-the-counter  market or bearing a rating of one of the three highest
  grades by a nationally recognized investment service  organization  that
  has been engaged regularly in rating corporate debt or equity issues for
  a period of not less than five years; and
    * NB  Effective  until notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    * (vi) interest-bearing bills, notes, bonds, debentures  or  preferred
  stock  traded  on  any  national  securities  exchange  or on a national
  over-the-counter market or which meet the standards of  creditworthiness
  established by regulation by the superintendent; and
    * NB  Effective  upon  notification of the superintendent of financial
  services
    (vii) such other investments or assets  if  and  as  approved  by  the
  superintendent.
    Except  for cash and certificates of deposit of a commercial bank, any
  particular investment within the classes of  investments  authorized  by
  this  section  is  subject to disqualification for one or more licensees
  for the purpose of this article, if unsatisfactory for any reason in the
  opinion of the superintendent. Notwithstanding the foregoing  provisions
  of  this section, the superintendent shall have the power to limit, with
  respect to any particular licensee or all licensees, the extent to which
  any class of investments authorized by this section, except for cash and
  certificates of deposit of  a  commercial  bank,  may  be  considered  a
  permissible investment.
    10.  "Agent"  means any person designated or appointed by the licensee
  pursuant to a written agency contract to engage  in  money  transmission
  activities  at  locations  other  than  a  duly authorized office of the
  licensee as provided in section six hundred forty-eight of this article.
  Except for a licensee, any person acting  as  agent  engaging  in  money
  transmission  activities  absent such a written agency contract shall be
  deemed to be in violation of  section  six  hundred  forty-one  of  this
  article  and  may be subject to criminal prosecution pursuant to section
  six hundred fifty of this article. Such term  shall  not  be  deemed  to
  include  any  banking  corporation  incorporated  or licensed under this
  chapter or under the laws of the United States or any other state or any
  casher of checks licensed under this chapter.


::: 641:license.html
 
    &#167; 641.  License.  1. No person shall engage in the business of selling
  or issuing checks, or engage in the  business  of  receiving  money  for
  transmission  or  transmitting  the  same,  without  a  license therefor
  obtained from the superintendent as provided in this article, nor  shall
  any  person engage in such business as an agent, except as an agent of a
  licensee or as agent of a payee; provided, however, that nothing in this
  article shall apply to a bank, trust company,  private  banker,  foreign
  banking  corporation licensed pursuant to article two of this chapter or
  foreign  banking  company  authorized  to  operate   pursuant   to   the
  International  Banking  Act  of  1978 (12 USC 3101 et seq.), as amended,
  savings bank, savings and loan association,  an  investment  company,  a
  national   banking   association,   federal  reserve  bank,  corporation
  organized under the provisions of section twenty-five-a  of  an  act  of
  congress  entitled  the  "Federal  Reserve  Act",  federal savings bank,
  federal savings and loan association or state or federal credit union.
    2. Application for a license required under this article shall  be  in
  writing,  under  oath, and in the form prescribed by the superintendent,
  and shall contain the following:
    (a) The exact name of the applicant and, if incorporated, the date  of
  incorporation and the state where incorporated.
    (b)  The  complete  address  of  the  principal  office from which the
  business is to be conducted, and where the  books  and  records  of  the
  applicant  are  maintained  and to be maintained, showing the street and
  number, if any, and the municipality and county;
    (c) If the  applicant  has  one  or  more  branches,  subsidiaries  or
  affiliates  engaging in this state in the business of selling or issuing
  checks, or of receiving money for transmission or transmitting the same,
  the complete name and address of each;
    (d) The name and residence address of the applicant, if an  individual
  or,  if  a  partnership,  of  its  partners  or,  if  a  corporation  or
  association, of the directors, trustees and principal officers  thereof,
  and  of any stockholder owning twenty per centum or more of any class of
  its stock; and
    (e)  Such  other  pertinent  information  as  the  superintendent  may
  require.
    3.  Application for a license shall be accompanied by an investigation
  fee as prescribed pursuant to section eighteen-a of this chapter,  which
  shall not be refunded.


::: 642:action_by_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 642. Action by superintendent. 1. Upon the filing of an application,
  and  the  payment  of  the  fees  for  investigation  and  license,  the
  superintendent   shall   investigate   the   financial   condition   and
  responsibility, financial and business experience, character and general
  fitness  of  the  applicant  and,  if  the  superintendent  finds  these
  qualities are such  as  to  warrant  the  belief  that  the  applicant's
  business  will  be  conducted honestly, fairly, equitably, carefully and
  efficiently within the purposes and intent of this  article,  and  in  a
  manner  commanding  the  confidence  and  trust  of  the  community, the
  superintendent shall advise the applicant in writing of his  conditional
  approval  of  the  application,  and  thereafter  upon compliance by the
  applicant with the provisions of section six hundred forty-three of this
  article, shall issue to  the  applicant  a  license  to  engage  in  the
  business  of  selling  and  issuing  checks,  and of receiving money for
  transmission and transmitting the same, subject  to  the  provisions  of
  this  article; or the superintendent may deny the application and return
  the license fee to the applicant.
    2. The  superintendent  shall  approve  conditionally  or  deny  every
  application  for  a license hereunder within ninety days from the filing
  thereof. Such period of ninety days may  be  extended,  by  the  written
  consent  of the applicant, for such additional reasonable period of time
  as may be required to  enable  compliance  with  such  requirements  and
  conditions  as  may  be  provided  by  this  article  and  the  rules or
  regulations of the superintendent issued thereunder.
    3. A license issued pursuant to this  article  shall  remain  in  full
  force  and  effect until it is surrendered by the licensee or revoked or
  suspended as provided in this article.
    4. The superintendent may suspend or revoke a license on any ground on
  which he might refuse to issue an original license, or for  a  violation
  of  any  provision  of  this chapter or any regulation issued under this
  article, or for failure of the licensee to pay a judgment, recovered  in
  any court, within or without this state, by a claimant or creditor in an
  action  arising  out of the licensee's business in this state of selling
  or issuing checks or of receiving money for transmission or transmitting
  the same, within thirty days after the judgment becomes final or  within
  thirty  days  after  expiration  or  termination  of a stay of execution
  thereon; provided, however, that if execution on the judgment be stayed,
  by court order or operation of law or  otherwise,  then  proceedings  to
  suspend  or  revoke the license (for failure of the licensee to pay such
  judgment) may not be commenced by the superintendent during the time  of
  such stay, and for thirty days thereafter.
    5.  No  license  shall  be suspended or revoked except after a hearing
  thereon. The superintendent shall give the licensee at least  ten  days'
  written  notice  of  the time and place of such hearing by registered or
  certified mail addressed to the principal  place  of  business  of  such
  licensee.  Any  order  of the superintendent suspending or revoking such
  license shall state the grounds upon which it is based and shall not  be
  effective  until  ten days after written notice thereof has been sent by
  registered or certified mail to the licensee at such principal place  of
  business,  except  that  revocation by reason of the licensee's bond not
  being kept in full force and effect as required by this article,  or  by
  reason  of  failure to keep on deposit sufficient securities or funds as
  required  by  this  article,  may  take  effect   immediately   if   the
  superintendent so orders.
    6.  The  superintendent  may, on good cause shown, or where there is a
  substantial risk of public harm, suspend any license issued pursuant  to
  this   article   for   a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  days,  pending
  investigation. "Good cause", as used in this  subdivision,  shall  exist
  only  when  the  licensee  has  defaulted  or  is  likely  to default in
  performing  its  financial  engagements  or  engages  in  dishonest   or
  inequitable  practices  which  may cause substantial harm to the persons
  afforded the protection of this article.


::: 643:bond_or_securities.html
 
    &#167; 643.  Bond  or  securities.  1.  As a condition for the issuance and
  retention of the license, applicants for a license and  other  licensees
  shall,  within  thirty  days after notice by the superintendent, or such
  longer or shorter period as he or she shall  prescribe,  file  with  the
  superintendent  one  or more corporate surety bond or bonds, as required
  below, in form satisfactory to him  or  her  and  issued  by  a  bonding
  company  or  insurance  company authorized to do business in this state.
  One bond shall be in favor of the superintendent and in  such  principal
  amount  as  he  or she shall determine is necessary or desirable for the
  protection of the purchasers and holders of New York instruments sold or
  to be sold by the applicant or licensee, provided, however,  that  until
  June first, nineteen hundred seventy-seven, the principal amount of such
  bond  shall  be no less than two hundred ten thousand dollars and on and
  after June first, nineteen hundred seventy-seven, the  principal  amount
  of such bond shall be no less than five hundred thousand dollars. If the
  applicant  or  licensee  intends to engage or engages in the sale of New
  York traveler's checks, such applicant or licensee shall file  with  the
  superintendent  a  separate  bond.  Said  bond  shall be in favor of the
  superintendent and in such principal amount as he or she shall determine
  is necessary or desirable for  the  protection  of  the  purchasers  and
  holders  of  the  New  York  traveler's checks sold or to be sold by the
  applicant or licensee; provided, however, that the principal  amount  of
  such  bond  shall not be less than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars,
  unless the superintendent, for good cause shown, shall  have  determined
  that  a lesser amount will adequately protect the purchasers and holders
  of the New York traveler's checks sold or to be sold by  such  applicant
  or licensee.
    In making any determination under this subdivision, the superintendent
  may  take  into  account  the  financial  condition of the licensee, the
  number of locations in this state at which the licensee, either directly
  or  through  agents,  transacts  the  business  of  selling   New   York
  instruments  or New York traveler's checks, the controls imposed on such
  agents or, and the possible exposure of purchasers and  holders  of  New
  York  instruments and New York traveler's checks to loss in the event of
  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy  or  other  financial  impairment  of   the
  licensee.  The  proceeds  of each bond shall constitute a trust fund for
  the exclusive benefit of the purchasers and  holders  of  the  New  York
  instruments  and  New York traveler's checks, as the case may be. Except
  as otherwise provided in the following sentence, in  the  event  of  the
  insolvency  or  bankruptcy  of any licensee, the proceeds of the bond or
  bonds held for the exclusive benefit of the purchasers  and  holders  of
  New  York instruments and the proceeds of the bond or bonds held for the
  exclusive benefit of the purchasers and holders of New  York  traveler's
  checks  shall be paid to the superintendent forthwith for disposition in
  accordance with  the  provisions  of  this  article.  If  any  New  York
  instruments  have  been  assigned  to the fund, the proceeds of the bond
  held for the exclusive benefit of the purchasers and holders of New York
  instruments shall constitute a trust fund for the benefit of, and  shall
  be  payable  to, the fund to the extent of such assignment. From time to
  time, the superintendent may require, upon thirty days  notice  or  such
  longer or shorter period as he or she shall prescribe, that such bond or
  bonds  be  increased  if he or she shall determine that such increase is
  necessary or desirable for the protection of the purchasers and  holders
  of New York instruments and New York traveler's checks.
    2.  The licensee shall give notice to the superintendent by registered
  or certified mail of any action which shall be brought against  him  and
  of  any judgment which shall be entered against him by such purchaser or
  holder of a New York instrument or a New  York  traveler's  check,  with
  details  sufficient  to identify the action or judgment, within ten days
  after the commencement of any such action or notice to the  licensee  of
  entry  of  any such judgment. The corporate surety shall within ten days
  after it pays any claim or judgment to any such purchaser or holder of a
  New  York  instrument  or a New York traveler's check give notice to the
  superintendent  by  registered  mail  of  such  payment,  with   details
  sufficient to identify the purchaser or holder and the claim or judgment
  so  paid. Whenever the principal sum of such bond or bonds is reduced by
  one or more recoveries or payments thereon the licensee shall furnish  a
  new or additional bond or bonds under the provisions of this section, so
  that  the  total  or aggregate principal sum of such bond or bonds shall
  equal the sum required pursuant to the provisions of  this  section,  or
  shall  furnish  an  endorsement  duly  executed  by the corporate surety
  reinstating the bond or bonds to the required principal sum thereof. The
  liability of the surety on such bond or bonds to the superintendent  and
  to  the said purchasers and holders of New York instruments and New York
  traveler's  checks  shall  not  be  affected   in   any   way   by   any
  misrepresentation,  breach  of warranty or failure to pay the premium or
  by any act or omission  upon  the  part  of  the  licensee  nor  by  the
  insolvency  or  bankruptcy  of  the  licensee  or  the insolvency of the
  licensee's estate, and in the event  of  the  death  or  dissolution  or
  liquidation  of  the  licensee,  shall  continue  upon  all transactions
  entered into by the agents of such  deceased,  dissolved  or  liquidated
  licensee  within a period of thirty days after the death, dissolution or
  liquidation of the  licensee  or  termination  of  the  bond  or  bonds,
  whichever   date   shall  first  occur,  provided,  however,  that  such
  transactions were entered into in good  faith  by  such  purchasers  and
  holders  of  New  York instruments and New York traveler's checks. Every
  such corporate surety bond shall  provide  that  in  the  event  that  a
  judgment  recovered  against the licensee or its legal representative or
  successor by any such purchaser or  holder  on  a  claim  arising  or  a
  transaction  entered  into  during  the  life  of  the bond shall remain
  unsatisfied after the expiration of thirty  days  from  the  service  of
  notice  of  entry  of  judgment  upon  the  licensee  or  upon his legal
  representative or successor or upon the attorney for the  licensee,  and
  upon  the  corporate surety, or in the event that the fund has become an
  assignee of any claim arising or a transaction entered into  during  the
  life of the bond, then an action may be maintained against the corporate
  surety  under  the terms of the bond (1) by such purchaser or holder for
  the amount of such judgment not exceeding the amount of the bond, except
  during a stay of execution of such judgment against the licensee or  his
  legal  representatives  or  successors, or (2) by the superintendent, on
  behalf of the fund, for the amount of  such  claim,  not  exceeding  the
  amount of the bond. The bond may not be cancelled either by the licensee
  or  the surety except upon notice to the superintendent by registered or
  certified mail with return receipt requested,  the  cancellation  to  be
  effective  not less than ten days after receipt by the superintendent of
  such notice.
    3. In lieu of such corporate surety bond or bonds, or of  any  portion
  of the principal sum thereof as required by this section, applicants for
  a license and other licensees may keep on deposit, or may be required to
  keep on deposit by the superintendent, with such banks, trust companies,
  national  banks,  savings  bank,  savings and loan associations, federal
  savings associations, credit unions, or federal  credit  unions  in  the
  state  of New York as such applicants or licensees may designate and the
  superintendent may approve,  and  in  accordance  with  such  rules  and
  regulations  as  the  superintendent shall from time to time promulgate,
  interest-bearing  stocks  and  bonds,   notes,   debentures   or   other
  obligations  of  the  United  States  or  any  agency or instrumentality
  thereof, or guaranteed by the United States, or of this state, or  of  a
  city,  county, town, village, school district or instrumentality of this
  state,  or guaranteed by this state, or dollar deposits, to an aggregate
  amount, based upon principal amount or market value, whichever is lower,
  in the case of the above-described securities,  of  not  less  than  the
  amount  of  the  required  corporate  surety bond or bonds or portion or
  portions thereof. Such securities or funds shall be deposited to  secure
  the same obligation or obligations as would the corporate surety bond or
  bonds filed under this section. So long as it shall continue business in
  the  ordinary  course,  such  licensee  shall  be  permitted  to collect
  interest on the securities  so  deposited  and  from  time  to  time  to
  exchange,  examine  and  compare  such  securities.  In the event of the
  failure or insolvency of such licensee,  the  securities,  any  proceeds
  therefrom  and  the  funds  deposited  pursuant  to  this  section shall
  constitute a trust fund for the exclusive benefit of the purchasers  and
  holders  of  New  York instruments or New York traveler's checks, as the
  case may be, or, in the event such New York instruments are assigned  to
  the fund, the securities, any proceeds therefrom and the funds deposited
  pursuant  to  this section for the benefit of the purchasers and holders
  of New York instruments shall constitute a trust fund, for  the  benefit
  of the fund.
    4.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing provisions of this section, if the
  superintendent shall find that a licensee has transacted the business of
  money transmission in this state for a period of five consecutive  years
  and  that  such  business  has  been conducted honestly, efficiently and
  safely and that the licensee's financial condition is sound and that its
  New York instruments are insured, the superintendent may dispense  with,
  modify  or  eliminate  any of the foregoing requirements of this section
  with respect to New York instruments; provided, however, that if at  any
  time  subsequent  thereto, the superintendent shall deem it necessary or
  desirable for the protection of the purchasers and holders of  New  York
  instruments,  to  reinstate  any of the requirements of this section, he
  may do so.


::: 645:assignment_of_claims_to_superintendent.html
 
    &#167; 645.  Assignment of claims to superintendent. At the written request
  of any claimant or creditor of the licensee whose claim is  based  on  a
  transaction,  in  this state, for the sale or issuance of a check or the
  receipt of money for transmission or transmission of the same, under the
  provisions of this article, the superintendent may, in  his  discretion,
  take  an  assignment  of  such  claim  in  trust  for the benefit of the
  assigning claimant or creditor and may bring any legal action  necessary
  to  collect such claim. Two or more such claims against the licensee may
  be combined in one such action.


::: 646:investigations_hearings_and_reports.html
 
    &#167; 646.  Investigations,  hearings  and  reports. 1. The superintendent
  shall have the power  to  make  such  investigations  and  conduct  such
  hearings as he shall deem necessary to determine whether any licensee or
  any  other person has violated any of the provisions of this article, or
  whether any licensee has conducted  himself  in  such  manner  as  would
  justify the suspension or revocation of his license.
    2.  In  making any investigation or conducting any hearing pursuant to
  the provisions of this article, the superintendent, or any  person  duly
  designated  by  him,  shall  have  the  power  at  all times to subpoena
  witnesses; to take depositions of witnesses residing without the  state,
  in  the manner provided for in civil actions in courts of record; to pay
  such witnesses the fees and mileage for their  attendance  provided  for
  witnesses in civil actions in courts of record; and to administer oaths.
  He  shall  also  have  the  power  to  compel  by  order or subpoena the
  production of and to examine all relevant books, records,  accounts  and
  other  documents.  Any  person  who  fails  to  obey  the command of the
  subpoena without reasonable excuse, or refuses without reasonable  cause
  to  be  served or to be examined or to answer a question or to produce a
  book or paper when ordered so  to  do,  or  fails  to  perform  any  act
  required  hereunder to be performed, shall be subject to the compulsions
  in such cases made and provided by law, and if the  person  be  licensed
  hereunder,  the superintendent shall have the right to suspend or revoke
  the license.
    3. The superintendent may require of any licensee such reports,  under
  oath  or otherwise, concerning the licensee's business in this state, as
  he may deem necessary for the enforcement of this article.
    4. All reports of investigations and other reports  rendered  pursuant
  to  this  section,  and  all  correspondence and memoranda concerning or
  arising out of  such  investigations  or  reports,  including  any  duly
  authenticated  copy  or copies thereof in the possession of any licensee
  or  the  department  of  financial  services,  shall   be   confidential
  communications,  shall  not be subject to subpoena and shall not be made
  public unless, in the  judgment  of  the  superintendent,  the  ends  of
  justice  and  the  public advantage will be subserved by the publication
  thereof, in which event the superintendent may publish or authorize  the
  publication  of  a copy of any such report or other material referred to
  in this subdivision, or any part thereof,  in  such  manner  as  may  be
  deemed   proper.   For   purposes   of  this  subdivision,  "reports  of
  investigations, and other reports rendered pursuant to this section  and
  all  correspondence  and  memoranda  concerning  or  arising out of such
  investigations or reports" shall have the same meaning as such terms are
  defined pursuant to  subdivision  ten  of  section  thirty-six  of  this
  chapter.


::: 647:judicial_review.html
 
    &#167; 647.  Judicial  review.  The  refusal  by  the  superintendent of an
  original license, in the case of an applicant which,  prior  to  January
  first,  nineteen  hundred  sixty-three, and upon the date of filing such
  application, has lawfully been engaged in this state in the business  of
  selling  or  issuing  checks  or  of receiving money for transmission or
  transmitting the same, and in all cases the suspension or revocation  of
  any  license  by the superintendent, shall be subject to judicial review
  in the manner in such cases made and provided by law.


::: 648:agents.html
 
    &#167; 648.  Agents.  A  licensee  may  conduct its business at one or more
  locations within this state, as follows:
    (a) The business may be conducted through or by means of agents as the
  licensee may from time to time designate or appoint and,  in  no  event,
  shall  the  business  of  money  transmission  be  conducted  through  a
  subagent.
    (b) No license under this article shall be required of any agent of  a
  licensee  in cases in which such agent is acting on behalf of a licensee
  under, and in accordance with, an agency contract except as provided  in
  subdivision (c) of this section.
    (c)  An  agent,  other  than  a  person  expressly  excepted  from the
  application of this article, who sells or delivers the licensee's checks
  over-the-counter to the public shall not be exempt from licensing  under
  this  article  if  such  agent  in the ordinary conduct of such business
  receives or at any time has access to (1) the licensee's  checks  which,
  having been paid, are returned through banking channels or otherwise for
  verification or for reconciliation or accounting with respect thereto or
  (2)  bank  statements  relating  to checks so returned. No license under
  this article shall be required of  an  agent,  including  a  general  or
  managing  agent, of a licensee who does not directly sell or deliver the
  licensee's checks over-the-counter to the public.


::: 649:rules_and_regulations.html
 
    &#167; 649.  Rules and regulations. The superintendent is hereby authorized
  and empowered to make such rules and regulations as may in his  judgment
  be necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of this article.


::: 650:violations_and_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 650.  Violations  and  penalties.  1.  Any  person  who  violates or
  participates in the violation of any provisions of this article, or  who
  knowingly  makes  any  incorrect  statement  of  a  material fact in any
  application, report or statement made pursuant to this article,  or  who
  knowingly  omits  to  state  any  material  fact  necessary  to give the
  superintendent any information lawfully required by him  or  refuses  to
  permit any lawful investigation by the superintendent shall be guilty of
  a  misdemeanor  and,  upon conviction, shall be fined not more than five
  hundred dollars or imprisoned for not more than six months or  both,  in
  the discretion of the court.
    2.  a.  Any person who either (1) engages in the business of receiving
  money for transmission or transmitting the same or (2) sells  or  issues
  New  York  instruments  or New York traveler's checks as those terms are
  defined by section six hundred fifty-three of this  chapter,  without  a
  license  therefor  obtained  from the superintendent as provided in this
  article, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
    b. Any person who violates paragraph a of this subdivision and in  the
  course of that violation:
    (1)  knowingly receives or agrees to receive for transmission from one
  or more individuals a total of ten thousand dollars or more in a  single
  transaction,  a  total  of twenty-five thousand dollars or more during a
  period of thirty days or less, or a total of two hundred fifty  thousand
  dollars or more during a period of one year or less; or
    (2)  knowingly  sells  or  issues  New  York  instruments  or New York
  traveler's checks to one  or  more  individuals  totaling  ten  thousand
  dollars or more in a single transaction, a total of twenty-five thousand
  dollars  or  more  during a period of thirty days or less, or a total of
  two hundred fifty thousand dollars or more during a period of  one  year
  or less; or
    (3)   knowingly  engages  in  the  business  of  receiving  money  for
  transmitting or transmitting the same, knowing  such  money  to  be  the
  proceeds of any criminal conduct; or
    (4)  knowingly  sells  or  issues  New  York  instruments  or New York
  traveler's checks as those terms are  defined  by  section  six  hundred
  fifty-three  of  this  chapter, knowing such instruments or checks to be
  purchased with the proceeds of or derived  from  any  criminal  conduct;
  shall be guilty of a class E felony.
    3.  Any  licensee  who  fails  to  make  any  report  required  by the
  superintendent pursuant to this article, on or before the day designated
  for the making thereof, or  fails  to  include  therein  any  prescribed
  matter, shall forfeit to the people of the state an amount as determined
  pursuant to section forty-four-a of this chapter for every day that such
  report  shall  be  delayed  or withheld, and for every day that it shall
  fail to report any such omitted matter, unless the superintendent shall,
  in his or her sole discretion, for good cause shown, reduce  the  amount
  to be forfeited, or unless the time therefor shall have been extended by
  the superintendent, as provided in subdivision four of this section.
    4.  The  superintendent  may extend, for a period not exceeding ninety
  days, the time within which a licensee is required to  make  any  report
  required by the superintendent pursuant to this article.


::: 651-a:remittances.html
 
    &#167; 651-a.  Remittances.  Each  agent  of a licensee which sells any New
  York instruments or New York traveler's checks issued by  such  licensee
  shall, and each licensee shall so require each of its agents which sells
  any  New  York  instruments or New York traveler's checks issued by such
  licensee to report such sale and remit  the  face  amount  of  New  York
  instruments  and New York traveler's checks to such licensee within such
  period of time as the licensee requires within the normal course of  its
  business or as the superintendent, by rule or regulation, may prescribe.
  For  purposes  of  this  section, remittance shall include either direct
  payment of such funds to the licensee or the deposit of such funds in  a
  banking  organization,  national  bank,  federal  savings  bank, federal
  savings and  loan  association,  federal  credit  union,  or  a  banking
  institution  chartered under the laws of another state or country, in an
  account in the name of such licensee specifically  established  for  the
  purpose  of  receiving  such  funds.  Remittance  by  such agent to such
  licensee or deposit by such agent in such account or its  equivalent  of
  funds  in  advance of the sale of such New York instruments and New York
  traveler's checks, in an amount not less  than  the  amount  said  agent
  would  normally  receive from such sales of New York instruments and New
  York traveler's checks, shall be deemed compliance with  the  provisions
  of this section.


::: 651-b:maintenance_of_books_and_records_by_agents.html
 
    &#167; 651-b.  Maintenance  of  books  and records by agents. Each licensee
  shall require of each of its agents to  make  and  keep  such  accounts,
  correspondence,  memoranda,  papers,  books  and  other  records  as the
  superintendent by regulation or order requires. All records so  required
  shall  be preserved for the time specified by the regulation or order of
  the superintendent.


::: 651:investments.html
 
    &#167; 651.  Investments.  Every  licensee  shall  at  all  times  maintain
  permissible  investments  having  (i)  a  market  value,   computed   in
  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, at least equal
  to   the  aggregate  of  the  amount  of  all  its  outstanding  payment
  instruments and all its outstanding traveler's  checks  or  (ii)  a  net
  carrying   value,   computed   in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
  accounting principles, at least equal to the aggregate of the amount  of
  all   its  outstanding  payment  instruments  and  all  its  outstanding
  traveler's checks so long  as  the  market  value  of  such  permissible
  investments  is  at  least  eighty per centum of the net carrying value.
  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions   of   this   section,   the
  superintendent shall have the authority, for good cause shown, to exempt
  from the requirements of this section any licensee.


::: 652-a:changes_in_control.html
 
    &#167; 652-a.  Changes  in control. 1. It shall be unlawful except with the
  prior approval of the superintendent for any action to  be  taken  which
  results  in  a change of control of the business of a licensee. Prior to
  any change of control, the person desirous of acquiring control  of  the
  business   of   a   licensee  shall  make  written  application  to  the
  superintendent and pay an investigation fee as  prescribed  pursuant  to
  section   eighteen-a   of   this  chapter  to  the  superintendent.  The
  application shall contain such information  as  the  superintendent,  by
  rule  or  regulation,  may prescribe as necessary or appropriate for the
  purpose of making the determination required by subdivision two of  this
  section.
    2.  The superintendent shall disapprove the proposed change of control
  of a licensee if, after notice to and an opportunity to be heard by  the
  applicant and such licensee, he finds the acquisition of control therein
  contrary  to  law or determines that disapproval is reasonably necessary
  to protect the interest of the people of  this  state.  In  making  such
  determination,   the  superintendent  shall  consider  (a)  whether  the
  character, responsibility and general fitness of the person which  seeks
  to  control  such licensee are such as to command confidence and warrant
  belief  that  the  business  of  such  licensee  will  be  honestly  and
  efficiently  conducted  in a manner consistent with the public interest,
  (b) whether the exercise of  control  may  impair  the  safe  and  sound
  conduct of the business of such licensee, the conservation of its assets
  or  public  confidence  in  its  business, and (c) primarily, the public
  interest  and  the   needs   and   convenience   thereof.   Unless   the
  superintendent  shall have denied such application in writing within one
  hundred fifty days of the filing  thereof,  such  application  shall  be
  deemed approved. If the superintendent disapproves such application, or,
  if  no  such  application  has  been  made,  upon  consummation  of  the
  acquisition of control, the license of the licensee  shall  become  null
  and  void  and the applicant or licensee, whoever has possession of such
  license, shall forthwith surrender to  the  superintendent  the  license
  theretofore in effect.
    3.  For  a period of six months from the date of qualification thereof
  and for such  additional  period  of  time  as  the  superintendent  may
  prescribe,  in  writing,  the  provisions of subdivisions one and two of
  this section shall not apply to a transfer of control  by  operation  of
  law  to the legal representative, as hereinafter defined, of one who has
  control of a  licensee.  Thereafter,  such  legal  representative  shall
  comply  with the provisions of subdivisions one and two of this section.
  The provisions of subdivisions one and two  of  this  section  shall  be
  applicable  to  an  application  made  under  such  section  by  a legal
  representative.
    The term "legal representative", for the  purposes  of  this  section,
  shall  mean  one  duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to
  act as  executor,  administrator,  trustee,  committee,  conservator  or
  receiver,  including  one  who  succeeds  a legal representative and one
  acting  in  an  ancillary  capacity  thereto  in  accordance  with   the
  provisions of such court appointment.
    4.  As  used  in this section the term "control" means the possession,
  directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of
  the management and policies of a licensee, whether through the ownership
  of voting stock of such licensee, the ownership of voting stock  of  any
  person  which  possesses  such  power  or  otherwise.  Control  shall be
  presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly, owns,  controls,
  or holds with power to vote twenty-five per centum or more of the voting
  stock  of  any  licensee  or of any person which owns, controls or holds
  with power to vote twenty-five per centum or more of the voting stock of
  such licensee, but no person shall  be  deemed  to  control  a  licensee
  solely by reason of his being an officer or director of such licensee or
  person.  The  superintendent may in his discretion, upon the application
  of  a licensee or any person who, directly or indirectly, owns, controls
  or holds with power to vote or seeks to own, control or hold with  power
  to  vote any voting stock of such licensee, determine whether or not the
  ownership, control or holding of such voting stock constitutes or  would
  constitute control of such licensee for purposes of this section.


::: 652-b:tying_arrangements.html
 
    &#167; 652-b.   Tying  arrangements.  1.  It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any
  transmitter of money or its  officers,  affiliates  or  subsidiaries  to
  enter  into  an  agreement with a check casher, licensed pursuant to the
  provisions of article nine-A of this chapter, whereby credit is extended
  to the check casher at the same time as, and on the condition that,  the
  transmitter  of  money  enters  into  an agreement with the check casher
  whereby the check casher will (1) sell only the New York instruments  or
  New  York  traveler's checks of the transmitter of money or (2) agree to
  the exclusive use of any of the other services  of  the  transmitter  of
  money.  This section shall not apply to the issuance by a transmitter of
  money  of  a  guarantee  of  any indebtedness of a check casher licensed
  pursuant to the provisions of article nine-A of this chapter.
    2. For purposes of this section the term "transmitter of money"  means
  a  licensee,  as  such term is defined in subdivision two of section six
  hundred forty of this article, a bank, trust  company,  private  banker,
  savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  credit  union, foreign
  banking corporation licensed pursuant to article five of  this  chapter,
  national  banking association, federal savings bank, federal savings and
  loan  association,  federal  credit  union,  foreign   banking   company
  authorized  to operate pursuant to the international banking act of 1978
  (12 USC 3101 et seq.), as amended,  and  an  investment  company,  which
  either  directly  or through agents transacts the business in this state
  of selling or issuing  New  York  instruments  or  New  York  traveler's
  checks.
    For purposes of this section the terms "New York instruments" and "New
  York  traveler's  checks"  shall  have  the  meaning ascribed to them by
  section six hundred fifty-three of this chapter.


::: 652:severability.html
 
    &#167; 652.  Severability.  If  any  provision  of  this  article,  or  the
  application of such provision to any person or  circumstance,  shall  be
  held invalid, the remainder of this article, and the application of such
  provision  to  persons  or circumstances other than those to which it is
  held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 653:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 653.  Definitions. 1. "Claimant", when used in this article, means a
  purchaser or holder of a New York instrument.
    2. "Federal insuring agency", when used in  this  article,  means  the
  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  or  the  National Credit Union
  Administration.
    3. "Fund", when used in this article, means the state  transmitter  of
  money insurance fund as provided for in this article.
    4.  "Holder",  when used in this article, means a person, other than a
  purchaser, who is either (i) in possession of a New York instrument  and
  is  the  named  payee  thereon,  or  (ii)  in  possession  of a New York
  instrument issued or endorsed to him or bearer or  in  blank;  provided,
  however, that no person who is in possession of a lost, stolen or forged
  New  York instrument or who is in possession of a New York instrument by
  virtue of the fact  that  he  is  the  surety  on  a  bond  required  by
  subdivision one of section six hundred forty-three of this chapter or is
  a  receiver  or  trustee,  whether  in  bankruptcy  or otherwise, for an
  uninsured transmitter of money shall be deemed a "holder" thereof.
    5. "Insured transmitter of money" means a transmitter of  money  whose
  New York instruments are insured by a federal insuring agency.
    6.  "New  York  instrument" means a money order, check, draft or other
  instrument or document for the transmission  or  payment  of  money,  or
  which  evidences an obligation for the transmission or payment of money,
  or which evidences the purchase or deposit of funds for the purchase  of
  any such instrument or document, sold in New York, but shall not include
  a New York traveler's check.
    7.  "Purchaser"  means  a  person  who  buys  or has bought a New York
  instrument from an uninsured transmitter of money or agent thereof.
    8. "Transmitter of money" means a licensee, as such term is defined in
  subdivision two of section six hundred forty of this  chapter,  a  bank,
  trust  company,  private  banker,  savings  bank  and  savings  and loan
  association,  a  credit  union,  foreign  banking  corporation  licensed
  pursuant to article two of this chapter and any investment company which
  either  directly  or through agents transacts the business in this state
  of selling or issuing New York instruments.
    9. "New York traveler's check" means an instrument, regardless of  its
  form,  specifically  identified on the instrument as a traveler's check,
  and issued in either written form,  with  a  provision  for  a  specimen
  signature of the purchaser to be completed at the time of purchase and a
  counter-signature  of  the  purchaser to be completed at the time of its
  negotiation, or in electronic form with  provision  for  the  electronic
  equivalent  of  the  specimen  signature  and counter signature, and, in
  either case, sold in New York. An instrument shall not be identified  as
  a  traveler's  check  if  it  fails  to comply, as the case may be, with
  either  the  written  or  electronic  signature  requirements  of   this
  subdivision.
    10.  "Uninsured  transmitter  of  money"  means a transmitter of money
  other than a  banking  organization,  whose  New  York  instruments  are
  uninsured by a federal insuring agency.


::: 654:purpose_of_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 654. Purpose of the fund. There is hereby created a fund to be known
  as  the  "state transmitter of money insurance fund". The purpose of the
  fund  shall  be  to  insure  the  New  York  instruments  of   uninsured
  transmitters  of  money  which,  by  reason of insolvency, bankruptcy or
  other inability to pay, have defaulted in making payment  on  their  New
  York  instruments,  whether  such default has occurred prior to or after
  the effective date of this act.


::: 655:maximum_amount_of_insurance.html
 
    &#167; 655.  Maximum  amount  of insurance. 1. Subject to the provisions of
  subdivisions two and three  of  this  section,  the  maximum  amount  of
  insurance  that any claimant shall be entitled to shall be determined by
  the superintendent after taking into account the amount of  claims,  the
  amount  of  the  fund,  including  the  authority  of  the  fund to make
  assessments pursuant to section six hundred fifty-seven of this article,
  and any claim for recovery which the fund would  have  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of section six hundred forty-three of this chapter.
    2.  No  insurance shall be paid on any New York instrument payable for
  an amount in excess of one thousand dollars, other than those  New  York
  instruments issued for the purpose of paying utility bills.
    3.  The  maximum  amount  of  insurance  which  any  claimant shall be
  entitled to shall be determined as follows:
    a. If the claimant is a purchaser, the  maximum  amount  of  insurance
  which  such  purchaser  shall  be  entitled  to  on all insured New York
  instruments purchased by said purchaser shall be five thousand dollars.
    b. If the claimant is a holder, the maximum amount of insurance  which
  such  holder  shall be entitled to shall be the aggregate of the amounts
  which would have been due to the purchasers  of  the  insured  New  York
  instruments  held  by  the  holder,  had the instruments remained in the
  possession of the purchasers, rather than the holder.


::: 656:claims_against_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 656.  Claims  against  the  fund.  1. If an uninsured transmitter of
  money  has  defaulted  in  making  payment  on  any  of  its  New   York
  instruments,  the  superintendent  shall  give notice of such default to
  purchasers and holders of such instruments.  Such notice may be given by
  means  of  publication  in  such  newspaper   or   newspapers   as   the
  superintendent  may  direct  and  by  such  other  means, if any, as the
  superintendent may determine to be reasonable and  necessary  under  the
  circumstances.   The determination of the superintendent as to the means
  of notice  shall  be  conclusively  presumed  reasonable  if  notice  is
  published  in  such  newspaper  or newspapers for five consecutive days.
  Such notices shall request purchasers and holders  of  such  instruments
  who  wish  to file claims against the fund to present such claims to the
  superintendent and to file proper proof thereof  within  the  period  of
  time  set  forth  in  the  notice and at a place specified therein. Such
  notice may limit the period of time within which claims may be filed  to
  a  period  of time no less than ten business days from the final date of
  notice.   Claimants shall file their  claims  in  the  form  and  manner
  prescribed by the superintendent and shall make proof thereof and of the
  loss  actually  suffered  by  such  claimants to the satisfaction of the
  superintendent. The superintendent shall examine the  claims  so  filed,
  determine  the  amount due upon such claims and certify, in writing, the
  amount due each claimant, whereupon payment by the fund to the  claimant
  shall  be  made  as  provided for in this article. In any case where the
  superintendent is not satisfied as to the allowability of a claim or  if
  he  has  notice  of  an  adverse  claim  with  respect  to such New York
  instrument, he may  require  the  final  determination  of  a  court  of
  competent  jurisdiction  before  certifying such claim. Whoever, for the
  purpose of obtaining payment on any insured New York instrument, or  the
  payment  of  any  claim,  makes any statement knowing it to be false, or
  willfully  overvalues  any  claim,  shall  be  guilty  of  a   Class   A
  misdemeanor.
    2.  The  payment  by  the  fund  to  the  claimant shall constitute an
  assignment, by operation of law, of all rights which  the  claimant  has
  with  respect  to  the New York instrument, including all rights, claims
  and interests in property which the claimant could have asserted against
  the  transmitter  of  money  or  its  property  or  otherwise,  and  all
  recoveries  which he would have been entitled to under the provisions of
  section six hundred forty-three of this chapter, provided  that  if  any
  portion  of  such New York instrument is uninsured by virtue of the fact
  that it exceeds the maximum amount of insurance provided for by  section
  six  hundred fifty-five of this article or otherwise, the claimant shall
  retain all of his rights with respect to the uninsured portion  of  such
  instrument.


::: 657:payments_to_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 657.  Payments  to  the fund. In the event the fund has borrowed any
  monies from the property and liability insurance security fund  pursuant
  to  the  provisions  of section six hundred fifty-eight of this chapter,
  and has any debt outstanding thereto,  or  in  the  event  an  uninsured
  transmitter  of  money  is  declared,  or  declares itself, insolvent or
  defaults on its New York instruments, the fund shall levy an  assessment
  upon  each uninsured transmitter of money. The amount of such assessment
  shall be determined by the superintendent provided, however,  that  each
  uninsured  transmitter of money shall be assessed ratably, in proportion
  to the average of the dollar amounts of the New York instruments  issued
  by  such  uninsured  transmitter of money outstanding at the end of each
  calendar quarter for the calendar  year  preceding  that  in  which  the
  assessment  is  made,  and  provided,  further, that no such assessments
  shall be levied once the net value of the fund shall equal  such  amount
  as  the  superintendent shall have determined to be necessary to protect
  the interests of the purchasers and holders of New York instruments.  In
  making his determination, the superintendent shall consider the scope of
  the  risk  covered  by the fund, the expenses incurred or expected to be
  incurred by the fund, the amount of any loans and advances to the  fund,
  and the interest thereon.
    In no event shall the total amount so assessed in any one year against
  any  uninsured  transmitter of money pursuant to this section exceed two
  per centum of the New York instruments of such uninsured transmitter  of
  money  which  were outstanding at the end of the calendar year preceding
  that in which such assessments  are  made  or  one  hundred  twenty-five
  thousand  dollars, whichever is less. The net value of the fund shall be
  determined by deducting from the value of the assets  of  the  fund  the
  aggregate  actual and estimated liabilities of the fund as determined by
  the superintendent.


::: 658:general_powers_of_the_fund_administration_of_the_fund.html
 
    &#167; 658. General powers of the fund; administration of the fund.  1. The
  fund  shall  have  the  power  to  borrow  money  from  the property and
  liability insurance security fund created by section seven thousand  six
  hundred  three  of the insurance law on such terms and conditions as the
  superintendent may authorize pursuant to section seven of chapter one of
  the laws of nineteen hundred seventy-seven to the  extent  necessary  to
  protect  the  interests  of  the  purchasers  and  holders  of  New York
  instruments, and to pledge the assets of the fund or any portion thereof
  as security for such borrowings.
    2. The fund shall have the power to accept contributions or  donations
  to  the  fund  from  any  source.  The fund shall also have the power to
  pursue, realize upon, compromise and otherwise dispose of all rights and
  remedies of claimants assigned to the fund pursuant to the provisions of
  this article. The proceeds of all such rights and remedies and any other
  amounts which the fund may receive from any source  shall  constitute  a
  part of the assets of the fund.
    3.  The  fund created by this article shall be separate and apart from
  any other fund and from all other state monies, and the faith and credit
  of  the  state  of  New  York  is  pledged  for  its  safekeeping.   The
  commissioner  of taxation and finance shall be the custodian of the fund
  and all disbursements from said fund shall be made by  the  commissioner
  of  taxation  and  finance upon vouchers signed by the superintendent or
  his designated deputy. The monies of said fund may be  invested  by  the
  commissioner  of  taxation and finance only in obligations of the United
  States or of this state and in interest-bearing certificates of  deposit
  for  a  bank  or  trust company located and authorized to do business in
  this state, or of a national bank located in this state,  secured  by  a
  pledge of direct obligations of the United States or of the state of New
  York  in  an  amount equal to the amount of such certificate of deposit.
  The commissioner of taxation and finance may sell any of the obligations
  or certificates of deposit in which said fund is invested, if advisable,
  for its proper administration or in the best interests of said fund.
    4. The expense of administering the fund shall  be  paid  out  of  the
  fund. Prior to the first days of January, April, July and October, there
  shall  be  submitted  to  the  director  of  the  budget for approval an
  estimated budget of expenditures for the succeeding three months.  There
  may  not be expended for the purpose of administering the fund more than
  the  amounts  as  authorized  by  the  director  of  the   budget.   The
  superintendent   shall  serve  as  administrator  of  the  fund  without
  additional compensation, but may be  allowed  and  paid  from  the  fund
  expenses  incurred  in  the performance of his duties in connection with
  the  fund.    The  compensation  of  those  persons  employed   by   the
  superintendent,  within  the  amounts  approved  by  the director of the
  budget, shall be deemed administration expense payable  from  the  fund.
  The  superintendent  shall  make an annual report of the receipts to and
  disbursements from the fund, including the cost of administration of the
  fund, which report shall be made available to each uninsured transmitter
  of money who has made payments into the fund during such year and to any
  other person having an interest in the fund.


::: 659:rules_and_regulations.html
 
    &#167; 659.  Rules and regulations. The superintendent is hereby authorized
  and empowered to make such rules and regulations as may in his  judgment
  be necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of this article.


::: 660:misconduct_of_officers_directors_trustees_or_employees_of_banking_corporations_and_of_private_bankers.html
 
    &#167; 660.  Misconduct  of  officers, directors, trustees, or employees of
  banking  corporations  and  of  private  bankers.  A   director   of   a
  corporation,  organized  under  the  laws  of this state, having banking
  powers, who concurs in  any  vote  or  act  of  the  directors  of  such
  corporation,  or  any of them, by which it is intended to make a loan or
  discount to any director of such corporation, or upon paper  upon  which
  any  such  director  is liable or responsible to an amount exceeding the
  amount allowed  by  statute;  or,  any  director,  trustee,  officer  or
  employee  of  any corporation to which the banking law is applicable who
  makes or maintains, or attempts to make or maintain, a deposit  of  such
  corporation's funds with any other corporation on condition, or with the
  understanding,  express  or implied, that the corporation receiving such
  deposit make a loan or advance, directly or indirectly, to any director,
  trustee, officer or employee of the corporation so making or maintaining
  or attempting to  make  or  maintain  such  deposit;  or  any  director,
  trustee, officer, or employee of any banking corporation organized under
  the laws of another state which is doing business in New York, who makes
  or  maintains,  or  attempts  to  make  or  maintain,  a deposit of such
  corporation's funds with any banking organization or  any  branch  of  a
  foreign banking corporation licensed under article five of this chapter,
  on  condition,  or  with the understanding, express or implied, that the
  banking organization or branch receiving such deposit  make  a  loan  or
  advance,  directly  or  indirectly, to any director, trustee, officer or
  employee of  such  banking  corporation  so  making  or  maintaining  or
  attempting  to  make or maintain such deposit; or any director, trustee,
  officer, or employee of any banking organization or any branch or agency
  of a foreign banking corporation licensed under  article  five  of  this
  chapter  who  receives,  or attempts to receive, a deposit of funds from
  any other banking organization, or  any  national  banking  association,
  federal savings and loan association, federal credit union, or a banking
  corporation  organized  under  the  laws of another state or country, on
  condition, or with the understanding,  express  or  implied,  that  such
  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking  corporation  licensed under
  article five of this chapter receiving, or attempting to  receive,  such
  deposit make a loan or advance, directly or indirectly, to any director,
  trustee,  officer  or  employee  of  the  banking organization, national
  banking association,  federal  savings  and  loan  association,  federal
  credit  union or banking corporation organized under the laws of another
  state or country, so making or attempting to make, such deposit; or, any
  officer or employee of any corporation  to  which  the  banking  law  is
  applicable  who intentionally conceals from the directors or trustees of
  such corporation any discounts or loans made by it between  the  regular
  meetings  of  its board of directors or trustees, or the purchase of any
  securities or the sale of any of its securities during the same  period,
  or  knowingly fails to report to its board of directors or trustees when
  required to do so by law, all discounts or loans  made  by  it  and  all
  securities  purchased  or sold by it between the regular meetings of its
  board of directors or trustees; or any director, officer or employee  of
  a  bank or trust company, or a private banker or his employee, who makes
  any agreement express or implied, before or at the  time  of  issuing  a
  certificate  of  deposit,  by  which  its  holder  may demand or receive
  payment thereof in advance of its maturity, is guilty of a  misdemeanor.
  Nothing  in  this section shall render any loan made by the directors of
  any such corporation, in violation thereof, invalid.


::: 661:officer_or_agent_of_banking_corporation_or_a_private_banker_making_guaranty_or_endorsement_beyond_the_legal_limit.html
 
    &#167; 661.  Officer  or  agent  of banking corporation or a private banker
  making guaranty or endorsement beyond the legal  limit.  An  officer  or
  agent  of any banking corporation, or a private banker or his agent, who
  makes or  delivers  any  guaranty  or  indorsement  on  behalf  of  such
  corporation  or  private  banker,  whereby  such  corporation or private
  banker may become liable on any of its or his discounted notes, bills or
  obligations, in a sum beyond the amount of  loans  and  discounts  which
  such  corporation  or  private  banker  may legally make, is guilty of a
  misdemeanor.


::: 662:bank_officer_or_employee_overdrawing_his_account_or_asking_for_or_receiving_commissions_or_gratuities_from_persons_procuring_loans_or_making_overdraft.html
 
    &#167; 662.  Bank officer or employee overdrawing his account or asking for
  or receiving commissions or gratuities from persons procuring  loans  or
  making  overdrafts  of  their  accounts.  Any  officer, director, agent,
  teller, clerk or employee of  any  bank,  banking  association,  savings
  bank, trust company or private banker, who:
    1.   Knowingly   overdraws   his   account  with  such  bank,  banking
  association, savings bank, trust company or private banker, and  thereby
  obtains the money, notes or funds of any such bank, banking association,
  savings bank, trust company or private banker; or
    2. Asks or receives, or consents or agrees to receive, any commission,
  emolument,  gratuity  or  reward,  or  any  promise  of  any commission,
  emolument, gratuity or reward, or any money, property or thing of  value
  or  of  personal  advantage, for procuring or endeavoring to procure for
  any person, firm or corporation, any  loan  from,  or  the  purchase  or
  discount  of  any  paper, note, draft, check or bill of exchange, by any
  such bank, banking association, savings bank, trust company  or  private
  banker,  or  for  permitting any person, firm or corporation to overdraw
  any account with such bank, banking  association,  savings  bank,  trust
  company or private banker,
    Is guilty of a misdemeanor.


::: 663:receiving_deposits_in_insolvent_bank.html
 
    &#167; 663. Receiving deposits in insolvent bank. An officer, agent, teller
  or  clerk  of  any  bank, banking association or savings bank, and every
  private banker or his agent and any teller or clerk of a private  banker
  or  any  officer, agent or clerk of any corporation transacting any part
  of the business which a banking corporation  is  authorized  by  law  to
  transact who receives any deposit, knowing that such bank or association
  or  banker  or  corporation is insolvent, is guilty of a misdemeanor, if
  the amount or value of such deposit be less than twenty-five dollars; if
  the amount or value of such deposit be twenty-five dollars or over, such
  person shall be guilty of a felony.


::: 664:unlawful_investments_by_officers_of_mutual_savings_banks.html
 
    &#167; 664.  Unlawful investments by officers of mutual savings banks.  Any
  officer or trustee of a mutual savings bank authorizing  or  making  any
  investment of the funds of the bank in securities not authorized by law,
  is guilty of a misdemeanor.


::: 665:misconduct_by_directors_of_banking_corporations.html
 
    &#167; 665. Misconduct by directors of banking corporations. Every director
  of a banking corporation who:
    1.  In  case  of  the fraudulent insolvency of such corporation, shall
  have participated in such fraud; or
    2. Wilfully does any act as such director which is expressly forbidden
  by statute, or wilfully omits to perform any duty imposed  upon  him  as
  such director by statute,
    Is  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor,  if  no other punishment is prescribed
  therefor by law.
    The insolvency of a banking corporation is  deemed  fraudulent  unless
  its  affairs appear upon investigation to have been administered fairly,
  legally and with the same care and diligence  that  agents  receiving  a
  compensation for their services are bound, by law, to observe.


::: 666-a:loans_to_be_guaranteed_by_new_york_state_higher_education_assistance_corporation.html
 
    &#167; 666-a.  Loans  to  be  guaranteed by New York state higher education
  assistance corporation. It shall be unlawful for any banking corporation
  or private banker authorized to carry on the business of  banking  under
  the laws of this state to require that a person making application for a
  loan  to be guaranteed by the New York state higher education assistance
  corporation be a depositor with the bank  prior  to  the  time  of  such
  application.


::: 668:use_of_checks_with_certain_photographs_or_drawings_reproduced_thereon_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 668.  Use  of checks with certain photographs or drawings reproduced
  thereon prohibited. It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  person,  firm  or
  corporation  to  use  any  bank  check in this state that has printed or
  embossed thereon a photograph, drawing  or  other  reproduction  of  any
  public building of the United States or of this or any other state or of
  any municipality, or the shield, coat of arms, flag or other insignia of
  the  United  States  or  of  this  or  any  other state or municipality.
  Violation  of  the  provisions  of  this  section  shall  constitute   a
  misdemeanor.


::: 669:unauthorized_use_of_the_term_bank_or_trust_company.html
 
    &#167; 669.  Unauthorized  use  of  the term "bank" or "trust company." Any
  person not authorized by the superintendent of financial services, who:
    1. Uses an office sign at the place where his business is  transacted,
  having  thereon  any  artificial  or  corporate  name,  or  other  words
  indicating that such place or office is the place or office of a bank or
  trust company; or,
    2. Uses or circulates any letter-heads, bill-heads, blank notes, blank
  receipts, certificates,  circulars  or  any  written  or  printed  paper
  whatever, having thereon any artificial or corporate name, or other word
  or  words  indicating  that  such  business is the business of a bank or
  trust company.
    Is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, however, that  nothing  in  this
  section shall be deemed to prevent a bank holding company from using any
  corporate  name  it  is  duly authorized to use under subdivision (b) of
  section three hundred two of the business corporation law.


::: 671:false_statements_or_rumors_as_to_banking_institutions.html
 
    &#167; 671.  False  statements  or  rumors as to banking institutions.  Any
  person who wilfully and knowingly  makes,  circulates  or  transmits  to
  another or others any statement or rumor, written, printed or by word of
  mouth,  which  is  untrue  in  fact  and  is  directly  or  by inference
  derogatory to  the  financial  condition  or  effects  the  solvency  or
  financial  standing  of  any bank, private banker, savings bank, banking
  association, building  and  loan  association  or  trust  company  doing
  business  in  this  state,  or who knowingly counsels, aids, procures or
  induces another to start, transmit or circulate any  such  statement  or
  rumor, is guilty of a misdemeanor.


::: 672:falsification_of_books_reports_or_statements_of_private_bankers_or_corporations_subject_to_the_banking_law.html
 
    &#167; 672.  Falsification  of  books,  reports  or  statements  of private
  bankers or corporations subject to the  banking  law.  1.  Any  officer,
  director,  trustee,  employee  or  agent of any corporation to which the
  banking law is applicable who makes a false entry in any book, report or
  statement of such  corporation  with  intent  to  deceive  any  officer,
  director or trustee thereof, or any agent or examiner lawfully appointed
  to  examine into its condition or into any of its affairs, or any public
  officer, office or board to which such corporation is required by law to
  report, or which has authority by law to examine into its  condition  or
  into  any  of  its  affairs, or who, with like intent, wilfully omits to
  make a true entry of any material particular pertaining to the  business
  of such corporation in any book, report or statement of such corporation
  made, written or kept by him under his direction, is guilty of a felony.
    2.  Any  employee or agent of a private banker who makes a false entry
  in any book, report or statement of such private banker with  intent  to
  deceive such private banker, or any agent or examiner lawfully appointed
  to  examine into the condition or affairs of such private banker, or any
  public officer, office or board to which such private banker is required
  by law to report, or which has authority by  law  to  examine  into  the
  condition  of  such  private  banker or into any of its affairs, or who,
  with like intent, wilfully omits to make a true entry  of  any  material
  particular  pertaining  to  the  business  of such private banker in any
  book, report or statement made, written or kept by such  private  banker
  or under his direction is guilty of a felony.
    3.  Any  private  banker  who  commits  any  act  made  punishable  by
  subdivision two, or who wilfully omits to make the true  entry  required
  thereby,  with  intent  to  deceive  his  co-partner  or any such agent,
  examiner, public officer, office or board is guilty of a felony.


::: 673:abstraction_or_misappropriation_of_money_funds_or_property_or_misapplication_of_credit_of_private_bankers_or_corporations_to_which_the_banking_law_i.html
 
    &#167; 673. Abstraction or misappropriation of money, funds or property, or
  misapplication of credit of private bankers or corporations to which the
  banking law is applicable, by an officer, director, trustee, employee or
  agent thereof.  Any officer, director, trustee, employee or agent of any
  corporation  to  which the banking law is applicable, or any employee or
  agent of any private banker, who abstracts or wilfully misapplies any of
  the money, funds or property of such corporation or private  banker,  or
  wilfully misapplies its or his credit, is guilty of a felony. Nothing in
  this section shall be deemed or construed to repeal, amend or impair any
  existing provision of law prescribing a punishment for any such offense.


::: 674-a:unlawful_undertakings.html
 
    &#167; 674-a.  Unlawful undertakings. 1. Every undertaking, whether written
  or oral, express or implied, constituting or  contained  in  a  contract
  heretofore  or hereafter entered into, directly or indirectly, between a
  banking   organization,   bank   holding   company,   national   banking
  association,  federal  savings  and  loan association or foreign banking
  corporation and the owner of an interest in real property located in the
  state,  which  bars  such  owner  from  leasing,  selling  or  otherwise
  disposing  of  any  interest  in  real  property  to  any  other banking
  organization,  bank  holding  company,  national  banking   association,
  federal  savings  and  loan  association  or foreign banking corporation
  shall be null and void.
    2. Any banking organization, bank holding  company,  national  banking
  association,  federal  savings  and  loan  association,  foreign banking
  corporation or any other entity or person injured  in  his  business  or
  property  by  reason  of  an  undertaking which violates subdivision one
  hereof may sue on account thereof and be entitled to recover three times
  the amount of the damages sustained, and the  cost  of  suit,  including
  reasonable attorneys' fees.
    3.  If  any  provision  of  this  section,  or the application of such
  provision to any individual, company  or  circumstance,  shall  be  held
  invalid,  the  remainder  of  this  section, and the application of such
  section to individuals, companies or circumstances other than  those  to
  which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 674:presumption_of_knowledge_of_corporate_condition_and_business_and_of_assent_thereto_by_directors_definitions.html
 
    &#167; 674.  Presumption  of  knowledge of corporate condition and business
  and of assent thereto by directors; definitions. It is no defense  to  a
  prosecution  for a violation of the provisions of this article, that the
  corporation is a foreign corporation, if it carries on business or keeps
  an office therefor in this state.
    The term "director" as used  in  this  article  includes  any  of  the
  persons  having, by law, the direction or management of the affairs of a
  corporation, by whatever name described.
    A director of a corporation or joint-stock association  is  deemed  to
  have  such  a knowledge of the affairs of the corporation or association
  as to enable him to determine whether any act, proceeding or omission of
  its directors is a violation of this article. If present at a meeting of
  the directors at which any act, proceeding or omission of such directors
  in violation of this article occurs, he must be deemed to have concurred
  therein, unless he at the time causes or in writing requires his dissent
  therefrom to be entered on the minutes of the directors. If absent  from
  such meeting, he must be deemed to have concurred in any such violation,
  if the facts constituting such violation appear on the record or minutes
  of  the proceedings of the board of directors, and he remains a director
  of the corporation for six  months  thereafter  without  causing  or  in
  writing  requiring his dissent from such violation to be entered on such
  record or minutes.


::: 675:joint_deposits_and_shares_ownership_and_payment.html
 
    &#167; 675.  Joint  deposits  and shares; ownership and payment. (a) When a
  deposit of cash, securities, or other property has been  made  or  shall
  hereafter be made in or with any banking organization or foreign banking
  corporation  transacting  business  in  this state, or shares shall have
  been already issued or shall be hereafter issued,  in  any  savings  and
  loan  association or credit union transacting business in this state, in
  the name of such depositor or shareholder and another person and in form
  to be paid or delivered to either, or the survivor of them, such deposit
  or shares and any additions thereto made, by  either  of  such  persons,
  after  the  making thereof, shall become the property of such persons as
  joint tenants and the same, together with  all  additions  and  accruals
  thereon,  shall  be  held for the exclusive use of the persons so named,
  and may be paid or delivered to either during the lifetime of both or to
  the survivor after the death  of  one  of  them,  and  such  payment  or
  delivery  and the receipt or acquittance of the one to whom such payment
  or delivery is made,  shall  be  a  valid  and  sufficient  release  and
  discharge to the banking organization or foreign banking corporation for
  all  payments  or  deliveries  made on account of such deposit or shares
  prior to the receipt by the  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking
  corporation  of  notice  in  writing  signed  by  any  one of such joint
  tenants, not to pay or deliver such deposit or shares and the  additions
  and  accruals  thereon  in  accordance with the terms thereof, and after
  receipt of any such notice, the banking organization or foreign  banking
  corporation  may  require  the receipt or acquittance of both such joint
  tenants for any further payments or delivery.
    (b) The making of such deposit or the issuance of such shares in  such
  form  shall,  in the absence of fraud or undue influence, be prima facie
  evidence, in any action or proceeding to which the banking organization,
  foreign banking corporation, surviving depositor  or  shareholder  is  a
  party,  of  the intention of both depositors or shareholders to create a
  joint tenancy and to vest title to such deposit or shares, and additions
  and accruals thereon, in such survivor. The burden of proof in  refuting
  such  prima  facie evidence is upon the party or parties challenging the
  title of the survivor.
    (c) 1. The superintendent of financial services shall  promulgate  and
  may from time to time amend rules and regulations which require that the
  joint  tenants  of  an account established on or after the date on which
  the rule or regulation becomes effective and representing any deposit or
  shares governed by the foregoing provisions of this section,  shall,  at
  the  time  the  account  is  established  be  informed  of the terms and
  conditions of the account including the  relationship  and  consequences
  between  the  parties  in  the  account  and the responsibilities of the
  institution with which the account is established.
    2. This subdivision or any rule or regulation thereunder shall not  be
  deemed or construed as increasing or diminishing the rights or liability
  of any person, or other entity.


::: 676:unauthorized_withdrawals_from_savings_or_time_deposit_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 676. Unauthorized withdrawals from savings or time deposit accounts.
  Any  withdrawal  of  moneys  from  any  savings  account or time deposit
  account maintained in any banking  organization,  branch  of  a  foreign
  banking corporation, national bank, federal savings and loan association
  or  federal credit union located in this state which is made by means of
  an unauthorized signature is wholly inoperative as to the  person  whose
  name  is  signed  unless  such  person  has  authorized or ratified such
  withdrawal or is precluded from denying such withdrawal because  he  has
  received  a portion of the funds withdrawn, provided that in such latter
  event he shall be precluded  from  denying  such  withdrawal  only  with
  respect  to  the  funds  so  received;  provided,  however,  that such a
  signature shall operate as the signature of the unauthorized  signer  in
  favor  of  any  such  banking  organization, branch of a foreign banking
  corporation, national bank, federal  savings  and  loan  association  or
  federal  credit union which has, in good faith, honored such withdrawal.
  No such banking organization, branch of a foreign  banking  corporation,
  national  bank,  federal  savings and loan association or federal credit
  union shall interpose the defense,  in  an  action  for  recovery  by  a
  depositor  of  money  paid  upon  an unauthorized signature, that it has
  exercised due care and diligence in ascertaining  the  identity  of  the
  person to whom it has paid such money. The term "unauthorized signature"
  shall  have  the meaning ascribed to it by section 1--201 of the uniform
  commercial code and the term  "savings  account"  shall  include  shares
  issued  by a savings and loan association, state or federally chartered,
  and by a credit union, state or federally chartered.
    Any  waiver  of  the  provisions  of  this  section  or  any  contrary
  agreement,  by-law,  rule  or  regulation  of  any banking organization,
  branch of a foreign banking corporation, national bank, federal  savings
  and loan association or federal credit union located in this state shall
  be void as against public policy and wholly unenforceable.


::: 677:decedents_accounts_withdrawals_by_authorized_persons.html
 
    &#167; 677.  Decedents' accounts, withdrawals by authorized persons. 1. The
  maximum withdrawal permissible by law for purposes of this section shall
  be the  amount  permitted  to  be  paid,  without  the  consent  of  the
  commissioner  of  taxation  and  finance,  under  rules  or  regulations
  promulgated  by  such  commissioner  pursuant  to  section  one  hundred
  seventy-one of the tax law.
    3.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing, no banking organization or foreign
  banking corporation shall be required to make any  payment  pursuant  to
  this  section  if  (a) it has notice of an adverse claim with respect to
  any such savings or time deposits or shares standing on its books to the
  credit of the decedent, or (b) there is in effect an  order,  injunction
  or  other  appropriate  process  of  a  court  of competent jurisdiction
  restraining such payment, or (c) it has notice that such  payment  would
  violate  the  terms  of  a legal and valid trust, or (d) such payment is
  inconsistent with any federal laws or regulations.
    4. Such payments  as  any  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking
  corporation  is  required  to  make  pursuant to this section shall be a
  valid and sufficient release and discharge to such banking  organization
  or foreign banking corporation for any payment so made.


::: 678:accounts_for_convenience_only.html
 
    &#167; 678.  Accounts  for  convenience  only.  1.  When a deposit of cash,
  securities or other property has been made, or shares shall be issued in
  or  with  any  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking   corporation
  transacting  business in this state, in an account established after the
  effective date of this section, in the name of a depositor  and  another
  person  and  in  form  to  be  paid  or  delivered  to  either  "for the
  convenience" of the  depositor,  the  making  of  such  deposit  or  the
  issuance  of  such  shares shall not affect the title to such deposit or
  shares and the depositor shall not be considered to have made a gift  of
  one-half  the  deposit  or  of  any additions or accruals thereon to the
  other person, and, on the death of the depositor, the other person shall
  have no right of survivorship in the account. If an addition is made  to
  such an account by anyone other than the depositor, such an addition and
  accruals thereon shall be considered to have been made by the depositor.
  Such  deposit  or  shares,  together  with  all  additions  and accruals
  thereon, may be paid or delivered to the depositor or the other  person,
  and  such  payment or delivery and the receipt or acquittance of the one
  to whom such  payment  or  delivery  is  made,  shall  be  a  valid  and
  sufficient  release and discharge to the banking organization or foreign
  banking corporation prior to the receipt by the banking organization  or
  foreign banking corporation of notice in writing signed by the depositor
  not  to  pay  or  deliver  such  deposit or shares and the additions and
  accruals thereon in accordance with the terms thereof, and after receipt
  of  any  such  notice,  the  banking  organization  or  foreign  banking
  corporation  may require the receipt or acquittance of the depositor for
  any further payments or delivery. If the depositor is dead, such payment
  or delivery to the other person shall be a valid and sufficient  release
  to  the banking organization or foreign banking corporation prior to the
  receipt by the banking organization or foreign  banking  corporation  of
  written  notice  of  the  depositor's  death.  A banking organization or
  foreign banking corporation which, upon the death of the  depositor  and
  prior  to  service  upon  it of a restraining order, injunction or other
  appropriate process from a court of competent  jurisdiction  prohibiting
  payment, makes payment to the executor, administrator or other qualified
  representative  of the deceased depositor's estate, shall, to the extent
  of such payment, be released from liability to  any  person  claiming  a
  right  to  the  funds  and  the  receipt or acquittance of the executor,
  administrator or qualified representative to whom payment is made  shall
  be  a  valid  and  sufficient  release  and  discharge  of the financial
  institution.
    2. The superintendent of financial services shall promulgate  and  may
  from  time  to  time  amend  rules  and regulations which require that a
  depositor who requests the establishment of an account in  the  name  of
  the  depositor and another person "for the convenience" of the depositor
  be informed of the terms and conditions  of  the  account  described  in
  subdivision   one  of  this  section,  including  the  relationship  and
  consequences between the parties in  such  an  account,  the  difference
  between  such  an  account and a joint account established under section
  six hundred seventy-five of this article, and  the  responsibilities  of
  the  institution  with  which  such  an  account  is  established.  This
  subdivision or any rule or regulation thereunder shall not be deemed  or
  construed  as  increasing  or diminishing the rights or liability of any
  person, or other entity.


::: 6:investment_in_obligations_of_housing_corporations_indirectly_guaranteed_pursuant_to_the_servicemens_readjustment_act_of_1944.html
 
    &#167; 6.  Investment  in  obligations  of  housing corporations indirectly
  guaranteed pursuant to the  "Servicemen's  Readjustment  Act  of  1944".
  Subject  to  such  regulations and restrictions as the superintendent of
  financial services finds to be necessary and  proper,  any  bank,  trust
  company  or  savings  bank  may invest in obligations of any corporation
  organized under any law of this state  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring,
  constructing,  owning,  maintaining,  operating,  selling or conveying a
  housing  project  or  projects  (not  including  hotels  but   including
  accommodations  for  retail  stores,  shops, offices and other community
  services reasonably incident  to  such  projects)  located  within  this
  state,  which  obligations  are  (a) secured by a first mortgage lien on
  such project, or such part thereof, as was or is to  be  constructed  or
  acquired  out of the proceeds of such obligations, either directly or by
  issue under  an  indenture  of  mortgage  from  such  corporation  to  a
  corporate  trustee  having  its  principal office in this state, and (b)
  guaranteed  indirectly  through  the  pledge  as  security  therefor  of
  obligations  directly guaranteed under title three of an act of congress
  entitled the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944",  in  an  aggregate
  amount  equal  to  at least thirty per centum of the principal amount of
  all sums advanced to such  corporation  under  the  loan  instrument  or
  indenture during the period of construction and, upon completion, to the
  extent  of  at  least  forty  per centum of the principal amount of such
  obligations.


::: 7001:board_of_directors_qualifications_and_disqualifications.html
 
    &#167; 7001.  Board  of directors; qualifications and disqualifications. 1.
  The affairs of  every  corporation  shall  be  managed  by  a  board  of
  directors, each of whom shall be at least eighteen years of age.
    2.  (a) At least one-half of the directors of a bank or trust company,
  stock-form savings bank, or stock-form savings and loan association must
  be citizens of the United States at  the  time  of  their  election  and
  during their continuance in office.
    (b) At least one-third of the directors of a safe deposit company must
  be  citizens of the United States and domiciliaries of this state at the
  time of their election and during their continuance in office.
    (c) At least one of the directors of an investment company shall be  a
  citizen of the United States and a resident of this state.
    3.  Each  director  of an investment company shall be a stockholder of
  such company unless otherwise provided in the organization  certificate,
  or in a by-law adopted by a stockholders' meeting.
    4.  No  more  than  one-third  of  the  directors of any bank or trust
  company,  stock-form  savings  bank,  or  stock-form  savings  and  loan
  association with capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits in an
  amount  in excess of that determined by regulation of the superintendent
  pursuant to this subdivision shall be active officers  or  employees  of
  the  corporation.    Each  person lawfully serving as director of such a
  corporation at the time such regulation takes effect, or any  amount  as
  determined  therein  is  modified,  and who is then an active officer or
  employee of the corporation, may continue to serve as a  director  until
  the   expiration  of  the  term  for  which  such  person  was  elected,
  notwithstanding the fact that by reason thereof more than  one-third  of
  the  directors  of  the  corporation  are  active  officers or employees
  thereof.
    5. Every person lawfully serving as a director  of  a  bank  or  trust
  company,  stock-form  savings  bank,  or  stock-form  savings  and  loan
  association at the time this act takes effect, who is not a  citizen  of
  the  United  States,  may  continue  to  serve  as  a director until the
  expiration of the term for which he  was  elected  notwithstanding  such
  lack  of  citizenship,  and if otherwise qualified shall be eligible for
  re-election as a director of  the  bank  or  trust  company,  stock-form
  savings  bank, or stock-form savings and loan association of which he is
  a director at the time this act takes effect.
    6. The organization certificate or the by-laws of  a  corporation  may
  prescribe other qualifications for directors.


::: 7002:number_of_directors_definition_of_entire_board.html
 
    &#167; 7002.  Number of directors; definition of "entire board". 1. (a) The
  number of directors constituting the entire  board  of  every  bank  and
  trust  company, stock-form savings bank, and stock-form savings and loan
  association shall be not less than five nor more  than  fifteen,  except
  that  any  such  corporation  with  capital  stock,  surplus  funds  and
  undivided profits of two million dollars or more may have not less  than
  seven nor more than twenty, and any such corporation with capital stock,
  surplus  funds and undivided profits of five million dollars or more may
  have  not  less  than  seven  nor  more  than  thirty   directors.   The
  superintendent  may  in his or her discretion permit (i) a bank or trust
  company,  stock-form  savings  bank,  or  stock-form  savings  and  loan
  association having less than five million dollars capital stock, surplus
  funds and undivided profits, to have not more than thirty directors, and
  (ii)  a  bank  or  trust company, stock-form savings bank, or stock-form
  savings and loan association  which  is  a  subsidiary,  as  defined  in
  subdivision  five  of  section one hundred forty-one of this chapter, to
  have less than the minimum number of directors provided herein.
    (b) The number of directors constituting the entire board shall be not
  less than five nor more than thirteen in the  case  of  a  safe  deposit
  company, and not less than five in the case of an investment company.
    2.  If  the  organization  certificate  does not specify the number of
  directors, the by-laws may prescribe the manner in which the  number  is
  to  be  determined  and  the  manner  in which the number may be changed
  within  the  maximum  and  minimum   limitations   prescribed   in   the
  organization certificate or an amendment thereof.
    3.  As  used  in this article, the term "entire board" means the total
  number of directors which a corporation would  have  if  there  were  no
  vacancies.


::: 7003:election_and_tenure_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7003. Election and tenure of directors. 1. At each annual meeting of
  stockholders of a corporation, the stockholders shall elect directors to
  hold  office  until  the  next  annual  meeting  except as authorized by
  section  seven  thousand  four  of  this   article.   The   organization
  certificate may provide for the election of one or more directors by the
  holders of the stock of any class or series, voting as a class.
    2.  Each  director  shall, unless sooner removed or disqualified, hold
  office until the expiration of the term for which  he  is  elected,  and
  until his successor has been elected and qualified.


::: 7004:classification_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7004.  Classification of directors. 1. The board of directors of any
  bank or trust company, stock-form savings bank,  or  stock-form  savings
  and  loan  association  may  be  classified into three classes as nearly
  equal as may be, with the terms of office of  one  class  expiring  each
  year,  and such corporations may make provisions for such classification
  in their by-laws.
    2. In the case of corporations other than banks and  trust  companies,
  stock-form savings banks, and stock-form savings and loan associations:
    (a)  The  organization  certificate  or  the  specific provisions of a
  by-law adopted by the stockholders may provide  that  the  directors  be
  divided  into either two, three or four classes. All classes shall be as
  nearly equal in number as possible, and no class shall include less than
  three  directors.  The  terms  of  office  of  the  directors  initially
  classified  shall be as follows: that of the first class shall expire at
  the next annual meeting of stockholders, the second class at the  second
  succeeding  annual  meeting,  the  third  class,  if  any,  at the third
  succeeding annual meeting, and the fourth class, if any, at  the  fourth
  succeeding annual meeting.
    (b)   At  each  annual  meeting  after  such  initial  classification,
  directors to replace those whose terms expire  at  such  annual  meeting
  shall  be  elected  to  hold  office  until the second succeeding annual
  meeting if there are two classes, the third succeeding annual meeting if
  there are three classes, or the  fourth  succeeding  annual  meeting  if
  there are four classes.
    (c)  If  directors  are  classified  and  the  number  of directors is
  thereafter changed:
    (1) Any newly created directorships or any decrease  in  directorships
  shall  be  so  apportioned  among  the classes as to make all classes as
  nearly equal in number as possible.
    (2) When the number of directors is increased by  the  board  and  any
  newly  created  directorships are filled by the board, there shall be no
  classification of the additional directors until the next annual meeting
  of stockholders.


::: 7005:vacancies_and_newly_created_directorships.html
 
    &#167; 7005.  Vacancies  and newly created directorships. 1. In the case of
  banks and trust companies,  stock-form  savings  banks,  and  stock-form
  savings and loan associations:
    (a)  The  persons  named  in the organization certificate as the first
  board may elect such additional number of directors as is  provided  for
  by the organization certificate.
    (b)  All  vacancies in the office of director, including newly created
  directorships resulting from an increase in  the  number  of  directors,
  shall  be  filled  by election by the stockholders except as hereinafter
  provided in this paragraph. Vacancies not  exceeding  one-third  of  the
  entire  board may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
  directors then in office, and the directors so elected shall hold office
  for  the  balance  of  the  unexpired  term;  provided,   however,   the
  superintendent  shall  have  the  power  to  determine by regulation the
  conditions under which vacancies in the office of director may  be  left
  unfilled until the next annual election.  Such regulations shall specify
  the  maximum  number  of  vacancies  which may be left unfilled with the
  superintendent's permission, and shall require  the  superintendent,  in
  granting  such permission, to take into account (i) whether such banking
  organization is subject to adequate  supervisory  oversight  by  a  bank
  holding company (as defined in section one hundred thirty or one hundred
  forty-one  of  this  chapter),  parent bank, or similar entity, (ii) the
  financial condition of such banking organization, (iii) whether it holds
  insured deposits, and  (iv)  the  provisions  of  section  ten  of  this
  chapter.
    (c)  Each  vacancy, including newly created but unfilled directorships
  resulting from an increase in the number of directors, in the office  of
  director and each reduction in the number of directors shall be reported
  to  the superintendent within ten days after such vacancy occurs or such
  reduction is effected. Each election by  the  board  to  fill  any  such
  vacancy  shall  be likewise reported together with the name, address and
  occupation of the person so elected.
    2. In the case of corporations other than banks and  trust  companies,
  stock-form savings banks, and stock-form savings and loan associations:
    (a)  Newly  created  directorships  resulting  from an increase in the
  number of directors and vacancies occurring in the board for any  reason
  except the removal of directors without cause may be filled by vote of a
  majority  of  the  directors then in office, although less than a quorum
  exists, unless the organization certificate or the by-laws provide  that
  such newly created directorships or vacancies shall be filled by vote of
  the stockholders.
    (b)  Unless the organization certificate or the specific provisions of
  a by-law adopted by the stockholders provide that the board  shall  fill
  vacancies  occurring  in the board by reason of the removal of directors
  without cause, such  vacancies  may  be  filled  only  by  vote  of  the
  stockholders.
    (c)  A  director  elected  to  fill a vacancy shall be elected to hold
  office for the unexpired term of his predecessor.
    (d) Vacancies in its board occasioned by resignations, deaths or other
  causes, including newly created  but  unfilled  directorships  resulting
  from  an  increase in the number of directors, shall be reported by each
  corporation to the superintendent within ten days after the  event;  and
  the corporation shall likewise report each election by the board to fill
  such vacancy with the name, address and occupation of the person elected
  and the name of the person whose place he has been elected to fill.


::: 7006:removal_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7006.  Removal  of  directors. 1. Any or all of the directors may be
  removed  for  cause  by  vote  of  the  stockholders.  The  organization
  certificate  or  the  specific  provisions  of  a  by-law adopted by the
  stockholders may provide for such removal by action of the board, except
  in the case of any director elected by  cumulative  voting,  or  by  the
  holders of the shares of any class or series, voting as a class, when so
  entitled by the provisions of the organization certificate.
    2.  If  the organization certificate or the by-laws so provide, any or
  all of the directors may  be  removed  without  cause  by  vote  of  the
  stockholders.
    3.  The  removal  of  directors, with or without cause, as provided in
  subdivisions one and two, is subject to the following:
    (a) In the case of a corporation having cumulative voting, no director
  may be removed  when  the  votes  cast  against  his  removal  would  be
  sufficient  to  elect  him if voted cumulatively at an election at which
  the same total number of votes were cast and the entire  board,  or  the
  entire  class  of  directors  of  which  he is a member, were then being
  elected; and
    (b) When by the provisions of the organization certificate the holders
  of the shares of any class or series, voting as a class, are entitled to
  elect one or more directors, any director so elected may be removed only
  by the applicable vote of the holders of the shares  of  that  class  or
  series, voting as a class.
    4. This section does not affect the powers of the superintendent under
  section forty-one of this chapter.


::: 7007:quorum_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7007.  Quorum  of  directors.  1. Subject to subdivision two of this
  section, unless a greater proportion is  required  by  the  organization
  certificate,  a  majority  of the entire board shall constitute a quorum
  for the transaction of business or of any specified  item  of  business,
  except  that  the  organization  certificate  or the by-laws may fix the
  quorum at less than a majority of the entire board  but  not  less  than
  one-third thereof.
    2.   Notwithstanding  any  provision  contained  in  its  organization
  certificate, a bank  or  trust  company,  stock-form  savings  bank,  or
  stock-form  savings  and loan association may provide in its by-laws the
  number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum at meetings of  its
  board.  Such  number shall not be less than five nor less than one-third
  of the entire board except that a  bank  or  trust  company,  stock-form
  savings bank, or stock-form savings and loan association having not more
  than  seven  directors  may  provide  for  a  quorum  of not less than a
  majority of such directors.


::: 7008:action_by_the_board.html
 
    &#167; 7008.  Action  by  the  board.  1.  Any reference in this chapter to
  corporate action to be taken by  the  board,  other  than  the  approval
  required by section five hundred eleven of this chapter, shall mean such
  action  at  a meeting of the board. Except as otherwise provided in this
  chapter, the vote of a majority of the directors present at the time  of
  the  vote,  if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the
  board.
    2. When authorized by the organization certificate of incorporation or
  the by-laws, any one or more members  of  the  board  or  any  committee
  thereof may participate in a meeting of such board or committee by means
  of  a  conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing
  all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the  same
  time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at
  a meeting.
    3.  The superintendent shall have the power to determine by regulation
  the circumstances under which any action required  or  permitted  to  be
  taken at any meeting of the board of directors of a banking organization
  may  be  taken  without  a  meeting  if all members of the board consent
  thereto in writing and the resolution and written consents  thereto  are
  filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.


::: 7009:greater_requirement_as_to_quorum_and_vote_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7009.  Greater  requirement  as  to  quorum  and  vote of directors.
  Subject to subdivision two of section seven thousand seven with  respect
  to  banks  and trust companies, stock-form savings banks, and stock-form
  savings and loan associations:
    1. The organization  certificate  may  contain  provisions  specifying
  either or both of the following:
    (a)  That  the  proportion of directors that shall constitute a quorum
  for the transaction of business or of any  specified  item  of  business
  shall  be  greater than the proportion prescribed by this chapter in the
  absence of such provision.
    (b) That the proportion of votes of directors that shall be  necessary
  for  the  transaction  of  business or of any specified item of business
  shall be greater than the proportion prescribed by this chapter  in  the
  absence of such provision.
    2. An amendment of the organization certificate which adds a provision
  permitted  by  this  section  or  which  changes  or  strikes out such a
  provision, shall be authorized at a meeting of stockholders by  vote  of
  the  holders  of  two-thirds  of all outstanding shares entitled to vote
  thereon or of such greater proportion of shares, or class or  series  of
  shares,  as may be provided specifically in the organization certificate
  for adding, changing or striking  out  a  provision  permitted  by  this
  section.
    3.  If  the  organization  certificate  of  any corporation contains a
  provision authorized by this section, the existence  of  such  provision
  shall  be  noted  conspicuously on the face or back of every certificate
  for shares issued by such corporation.


::: 700:laws_repealed.html
 
    &#167; 700.  Laws  repealed.  Of the laws enumerated in the schedule hereto
  annexed, that portion specified in the last column is hereby repealed.


::: 7010:place_and_time_of_meetings_of_the_board.html
 
    &#167; 7010.  Place and time of meetings of the board. 1. Meetings, regular
  or special, of the board may be held at any place within or without this
  state, unless otherwise provided by the organization certificate or  the
  by-laws.
    2. The board of every bank and trust company, stock-form savings bank,
  and  stock-form  savings  and  loan  association  shall, after their due
  qualification, hold an annual  meeting  for  the  election  of  officers
  within  twenty-five  days  after the annual meeting of stockholders. The
  board of every such corporation shall hold a regular monthly meeting  at
  least  ten  times  a  year  provided,  however,  that  during  any three
  consecutive calendar months the board shall meet  at  least  twice.  The
  executive  committee  shall meet at least once in each thirty day period
  during which the board does not meet.
    3. Subject to subdivisions one and two, the time and place for holding
  meetings of the board may be fixed by or under the by-laws, or,  if  not
  so fixed, by the board.


::: 7011:notice_of_board_meetings_waiver_adjournment.html
 
    &#167; 7011.  Notice  of  board  meetings; waiver; adjournment. 1.   Unless
  otherwise provided by the by-laws, regular meetings of the board may  be
  held  without notice if the time and place of such meetings are fixed by
  the by-laws or the board. Special meetings of the board  shall  be  held
  upon notice to the directors.
    2.  The  by-laws may prescribe what shall constitute notice of meeting
  of the board. A notice, or  waiver  of  notice,  need  not  specify  the
  purpose  of any regular or special meeting of the board, unless required
  by the by-laws.
    3. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who submits a
  signed waiver of notice whether before or  after  the  meeting,  or  who
  attends  the  meeting  without  protesting,  prior  thereto  or  at  its
  commencement, the lack of notice to him.
    4. A majority of the directors present, whether or  not  a  quorum  is
  present,  may  adjourn  any  meeting  to  another time and place. If the
  by-laws so provide, notice of any adjournment of a meeting of the  board
  to  another  time  or place shall be given to the directors who were not
  present at the time of the adjournment and, unless such time  and  place
  are announced at the meeting, to the other directors.


::: 7012:executive_committee_and_other_committees.html
 
    &#167; 7012.   Executive   committee   and  other  committees.  1.  If  the
  organization certificate or  the  by-laws  so  provide,  the  board,  by
  resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board, may designate from
  among  its  members  an  executive committee consisting of at least five
  directors in the case of  banks,  trust  companies,  stock-form  savings
  banks,  and  stock-form  savings  and  loan associations and of at least
  three directors in the case of other corporations, and other  committees
  each  consisting  of  three or more directors, and each of which, to the
  extent provided in the resolution or in the organization certificate  or
  by-laws,  shall have all the authority of the board, except that no such
  committee shall have authority as to the following matters:
    (a)  The  submission  to  stockholders  of  any  action   that   needs
  stockholders' authorization under this chapter.
    (b)  The filling of vacancies in the board of directors or in any such
  committee.
    (c) The fixing of compensation of the directors  for  serving  on  the
  board or on any committee.
    (d)  The  amendment  or  repeal of the by-laws, or the adoption of new
  by-laws.
    (e) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the  board  which  by
  its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable.
    (f)  The taking of action which is expressly required by any provision
  of this chapter to be taken at a meeting of the board or by a  specified
  proportion of the directors.
    The  board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of
  any such committee, who may replace any absent member or members at  any
  meeting of such committee.
    2.  The  board  may  appoint  or  provide  for  such  other committees
  consisting of such directors, officers or other persons and having  such
  powers  and  functions  in  the  management of the corporation as may be
  provided in the by-laws or, to the extent not so provided, by the board.
    3. Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the board.   The
  designation  or  appointment  of,  or  making of provision for, any such
  committee and the  delegation  thereto  of  authority  shall  not  alone
  relieve  any director of his duty to the corporation under section seven
  thousand fifteen of this article.


::: 7013:officers.html
 
    &#167; 7013.  Officers.  1.  The  board of every corporation, at the annual
  meeting of such board following each  annual  meeting  of  stockholders,
  shall  elect  a  president (who, in the case of a bank or trust company,
  stock-form savings bank, or stock-form  savings  and  loan  association,
  shall  be  from  its  own  number) and shall also elect one or more vice
  presidents and such other officers as are required by the by-laws to  be
  elected annually. It may from time to time fill vacancies in the offices
  of  any officers so elected, and elect or appoint such other officers as
  it may determine  or  as  may  be  provided  in  the  by-laws.  Where  a
  corporation  shall  elect  a  chief  executive  officer  in  lieu  of  a
  president, whose duties and functions  are  substantially  the  same  as
  those of a president, such chief executive officer shall be deemed to be
  a president for purposes of this chapter.
    2. Each officer shall hold office for the term for which he is elected
  or  appointed, and until his successor has been elected or appointed and
  qualified.
    3. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except  the
  offices of president and secretary.
    4. The board may require any officer to give security for the faithful
  performance of his duties.
    5.  All  officers as between themselves and the corporation shall have
  such authority  and  perform  such  duties  in  the  management  of  the
  corporation  as  may be provided in the by-laws or, to the extent not so
  provided, by the board.


::: 7014:removal_of_officers.html
 
    &#167; 7014.  Removal  of  officers. 1. Any officer elected or appointed by
  the board may be removed by the board, or his authority suspended by it,
  with or  without  cause.  Such  removal  or  suspension  without  cause,
  however, shall be without prejudice to his contract rights. The election
  or  appointment  of  an  officer shall not be deemed of itself to create
  contract rights.
    2. This section does not affect the powers of the superintendent under
  section forty-one of this chapter.


::: 7015:duty_of_directors_and_officers_oath_of_directors.html
 
    &#167; 7015.  Duty  of  directors  and  officers;  oath  of  directors.  1.
  Directors and officers shall discharge the duties  of  their  respective
  positions  in  good  faith  and  with that degree of diligence, care and
  skill  which  ordinarily  prudent  men  would  exercise  under   similar
  circumstances  in like positions. In discharging their duties, directors
  and officers, when acting in good faith, may  rely  upon  (a)  financial
  statements  of  the corporation represented to them to be correct by the
  president or the officer of the corporation having charge of  its  books
  of  account,  or  stated in a written report by an independent public or
  certified public accountant  or  firm  of  such  accountants  fairly  to
  reflect  the  financial  condition  of such corporation, and (b) reports
  required to be submitted to them by any provision  of  this  chapter  or
  prepared  in  the ordinary course of business by an officer or committee
  charged with the responsibility therefor. Nothing in this section  shall
  be  deemed  to  require the directors to perform functions vested in any
  committee, officer or other person pursuant to  the  provisions  of  any
  other section of this chapter.
    2.  In  taking action, including, without limitation, action which may
  involve or relate to a change or potential change in the control of  the
  banking  institution,  a director shall be entitled to consider, without
  limitation, (1) both the long-term and the short-term interests  of  the
  corporation   and   its  shareholders  and  (2)  the  effects  that  the
  corporation's actions may have in the short-term  or  in  the  long-term
  upon any of the following:
    (i)  the prospects for potential growth, development, productivity and
  profitability of the corporation;
    (ii) the corporation's current employees;
    (iii) the corporation's  retired  employees  and  other  beneficiaries
  receiving or entitled to receive retirement, welfare or similar benefits
  from  or  pursuant  to any plan sponsored, or agreement entered into, by
  the corporation;
    (iv) the corporation's customers and creditors; and
    (v) the ability of the corporation to provide,  as  a  going  concern,
  goods,  services,  employment  opportunities and employment benefits and
  otherwise to contribute to the communities in which it does business.
    Nothing in this subdivision  shall  create  any  duties  owed  by  any
  director  to  any  person or entity to consider or afford any particular
  weight to any of the foregoing or abrogate any duty  of  the  directors,
  either  statutory  or  recognized  by common law or court decisions. For
  purposes of this  subdivision,  "control"  shall  mean  the  possession,
  directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of
  the management and policies of a banking institution whether through the
  ownership  of voting stock of such banking institution, the ownership of
  voting stock of any company which possesses such power or otherwise.
    3. Each director of a bank or trust company, stock-form savings  bank,
  or  stock-form  savings and loan association, when appointed or elected,
  shall take an oath that he will, so far as the  duty  devolves  on  him,
  diligently  and honestly administer the affairs of such corporation, and
  will not knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated,  any  of
  the provisions of law applicable to such corporation. Such oath shall be
  subscribed  by  the  director  making  it,  and  certified by an officer
  authorized by law to administer oaths, and  immediately  transmitted  to
  the superintendent.
    4. Each director of a safe deposit company, when appointed or elected,
  shall  take  an  oath  that he will, so far as the duty devolves on him,
  diligently and honestly administer the affairs of such corporation,  and
  will  not  knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated, any of
  the provisions of law applicable thereto. Such oath shall be  subscribed
  by the director making it, and certified by an officer authorized by law
  to administer oaths, and immediately transmitted to the superintendent.


::: 7016:liability_of_directors_in_certain_cases.html
 
    &#167; 7016.  Liability  of  directors  in certain cases. 1. Directors of a
  corporation, who vote for or concur in the declaration of  any  dividend
  or other distribution to stockholders which impairs its capital stock or
  while its capital stock is impaired, impairs any surplus fund or reserve
  which  is  not  available  for  dividends under section one hundred ten,
  section three hundred nine-a or section five hundred seventeen  of  this
  chapter,   or   is   contrary  to  any  restrictions  contained  in  its
  organization certificate, shall be jointly and severally liable  to  the
  corporation  for  the  benefit of its creditors and stockholders, to the
  extent of any injury suffered by such persons, respectively, as a result
  of such action.
    2. A director who is present  at  a  meeting  of  the  board,  or  any
  committee  thereof, at which action specified in subdivision one of this
  section is taken shall be presumed  to  have  concurred  in  the  action
  unless  his  dissent  thereto  shall  be  entered  in the minutes of the
  meeting, or unless he shall submit his written  dissent  to  the  person
  acting  as  the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof,
  or shall deliver  or  send  by  registered  mail  such  dissent  to  the
  secretary  of  the  corporation  promptly  after  the adjournment of the
  meeting. Such right to dissent shall not apply to a director  who  voted
  in  favor of such action. A director who is absent from a meeting of the
  board, or any committee thereof, at which such action is taken shall  be
  presumed to have concurred in the action unless he shall deliver or send
  by  registered  mail  his  dissent  thereto  to  the  secretary  of  the
  corporation or shall cause such dissent to be filed with the minutes  of
  the proceedings of the board or committee within a reasonable time after
  learning of such action.
    3.  Any  director  against whom a claim is successfully asserted under
  this section shall be entitled to contribution from the other  directors
  who  voted  for  or  concurred  in  the  action  upon which the claim is
  asserted.
    4. Directors against whom a claim is successfully asserted under  this
  section  shall be entitled, to the extent of the amounts paid by them to
  the corporation as  a  result  of  such  claims,  upon  payment  to  the
  corporation of any amount of an improper dividend or distribution, to be
  subrogated  to  the  rights  of the corporation against stockholders who
  received  such  dividend  or  distribution  with  knowledge   of   facts
  indicating  that  it  was  within  the  scope of subdivision one of this
  section, in proportion to the amounts  received  by  them  respectively,
  unless  such  amount  has  been  returned  by  the  stockholder  to  the
  corporation.
    5. A director shall not be  liable  under  this  section  if,  in  the
  circumstances,  he  discharged his duty to the corporation under section
  seven thousand fifteen.
    6. This section shall not affect any liability  otherwise  imposed  by
  law upon any director.


::: 7017:actions_against_directors_and_officers_for_misconduct.html
 
    &#167; 7017.  Actions  against directors and officers for misconduct. 1. An
  action may be brought against one or more directors  or  officers  of  a
  corporation to procure a judgment for the following relief:
    (a) To compel the defendant to account for his official conduct in the
  following cases:
    (1)  The  neglect of, or failure to perform, or other violation of his
  duties in the management and disposition of corporate  assets  committed
  to his charge.
    (2)  The  acquisition by himself, transfer to others, loss or waste of
  corporate assets due to any neglect of, or failure to perform, or  other
  violation of his duties.
    (b)  To  set  aside  an  illegal conveyance, assignment or transfer of
  corporate assets, where the transferee knew of its illegality.
    (c) To enjoin a proposed illegal conveyance, assignment or transfer of
  corporate assets, where there is sufficient evidence  that  it  will  be
  made.
    2.  Subject  to  section  six  hundred  thirty-one of this chapter, an
  action may be brought for the relief provided in  this  section  and  in
  subdivision one of section seven thousand sixteen by a corporation, or a
  receiver,  trustee in bankruptcy, officer, director or judgment creditor
  thereof, or, under section six thousand twenty-five, by a stockholder or
  the owner of a beneficial interest in shares thereof.
    3. This section shall not affect any liability  otherwise  imposed  by
  law upon any director or officer.


::: 7018:nonexclusivity_of_statutory_provisions_for_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 7018.  Nonexclusivity of statutory provisions for indemnification of
  directors and officers.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses
  granted pursuant to, or provided by, this article shall  not  be  deemed
  exclusive  of  any  other  rights to which a director or officer seeking
  indemnification or advancement of  expenses  may  be  entitled,  whether
  contained  in  the  organization  certificate  or  the  by-laws or, when
  authorized by such  certificate  of  incorporation  or  by-laws,  (i)  a
  resolution  of shareholders, (ii) a resolution of directors, or (iii) an
  agreement  providing  for  such  indemnification,   provided   that   no
  indemnification  may  be made to or on behalf of any director or officer
  if a judgment or other final adjudication adverse  to  the  director  or
  officer  establishes  that  his acts were committed in bad faith or were
  the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and were material to  the
  cause  of  action so adjudicated, or that he personally gained in fact a
  financial profit  or  other  advantage  to  which  he  was  not  legally
  entitled.   Nothing contained in this article shall affect any rights to
  indemnification to which corporate personnel other  than  directors  and
  officers may be entitled by contract or otherwise under law.


::: 7019:authorization_for_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 7019.  Authorization  for indemnification of directors and officers.
  1. A corporation may indemnify any person, made,  or  threatened  to  be
  made,  a  party  to an action or proceeding (other than one by or in the
  right of the corporation to procure a judgment in  its  favor),  whether
  civil  or  criminal, including an action by or in the right of any other
  corporation of any type or kind, whether or not formed under any law  of
  this  state,  or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit
  plan  or  other  enterprise,  which  any  director  or  officer  of  the
  corporation served in any capacity at the request of the corporation, by
  reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, was a director or
  officer   of   the   corporation,  or  served  such  other  corporation,
  partnership, joint  venture,  trust,  employee  benefit  plan  or  other
  enterprise  in  any  capacity, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in
  settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys'  fees  actually
  and  necessarily  incurred  as a result of such action or proceeding, or
  any appeal therein, if such director or officer acted,  in  good  faith,
  for  a purpose which he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case of
  service for any other corporation or  any  partnership,  joint  venture,
  trust,  employee  benefit  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to, the
  best  interests  of  the  corporation  and,  in  criminal   actions   or
  proceedings,  in  addition,  had no reasonable cause to believe that his
  conduct was unlawful.
    2. The termination of any such civil or criminal action or  proceeding
  by  judgment,  settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere,
  or its equivalent, shall not in itself create  a  presumption  that  any
  such director or officer did not act, in good faith, for a purpose which
  he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case of service to any other
  corporation  or  any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit
  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to,  the  best  interests  of  the
  corporation  or that he had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct
  was unlawful.
    3. A corporation may indemnify any person made, or  threatened  to  be
  made,  a  party  to  an  action by or in the right of the corporation to
  procure a judgment in its favor by reason  of  the  fact  that  he,  his
  testator  or  intestate,  is  or  was  a  director  or  officer  of  the
  corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
  director or officer of any  other  corporation  of  any  type  or  kind,
  whether  or  not formed under any law of this state, of any partnership,
  joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against
  amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys'
  fees, actually and necessarily incurred by him in  connection  with  the
  defense  or  settlement  of such action, or in connection with an appeal
  therein, if such director or officer acted, in good faith, for a purpose
  which he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case  of  service  for
  any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
  benefit  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to, the best interests of
  the corporation, except that no indemnification under  this  subdivision
  shall be made in respect of (a) a threatened action, or a pending action
  which  is  settled  or otherwise disposed of, or (b) any claim, issue or
  matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable  to
  the  corporation,  unless and only to the extent that the court in which
  the action was brought, or, if no  action  was  brought,  any  court  of
  competent jurisdiction, determines upon application that, in view of all
  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  the  person is fairly and reasonably
  entitled to indemnity for such portion  of  the  settlement  amount  and
  expenses as the court deems proper.
    4.  For  the purpose of this section, a corporation shall be deemed to
  have requested a person to serve an  employee  benefit  plan  where  the
  performance by such person of his duties to the corporation also imposes
  duties on, or otherwise involves services by, such person to the plan or
  participants  or  beneficiaries  of the plan; excise taxes assessed on a
  person  with  respect to an employee benefit plan pursuant to applicable
  law shall be considered fines; and action taken or omitted by  a  person
  with  respect  to  an  employee  benefit plan in the performance of such
  person's duties for a purpose reasonably believed by such person  to  be
  in  the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan shall
  be deemed to be for a purpose which is not opposed to the best interests
  of the corporation.


::: 701:construction.html
 
    &#167; 701. Construction. The provisions of this chapter shall be construed
  as  a  continuation  of  the  provisions  of  chapter ten of the laws of
  nineteen hundred nine, as amended, modified or amended according to  the
  language employed, and not as a new enactment.


::: 7020:payment_of_indemnification_other_than_by_court_award.html
 
    &#167; 7020.  Payment  of  indemnification  other than by court award. 1. A
  person who has been successful, on  the  merits  or  otherwise,  in  the
  defense  of  a  civil  or criminal action or proceeding of the character
  described in section  seven  thousand  nineteen  shall  be  entitled  to
  indemnification as authorized in such section.
    2.  Except  as  provided in subdivision one, any indemnification under
  section seven thousand nineteen or otherwise permitted by section  seven
  thousand  eighteen,  unless  ordered  by  a  court  under  section seven
  thousand  twenty-one,  shall  be  made  by  the  corporation,  only   if
  authorized in the specific case:
    (a)  By  the  board acting by a quorum consisting of directors who are
  not parties to such  action  or  proceeding  upon  a  finding  that  the
  director or officer has met the standard of conduct set forth in section
  seven  thousand  nineteen  or  established  pursuant  to  section  seven
  thousand eighteen, as the case may be, or,
    (b) If a quorum under paragraph (a) is  not  obtainable  or,  even  if
  obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs:
    (i)  By  the  board  upon  the opinion in writing of independent legal
  counsel that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because  the
  applicable  standard  of conduct set forth in such sections has been met
  by such director or officer, or
    (ii) By the stockholders upon a finding that the director  or  officer
  has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in such sections.
    3.  Expenses  incurred  in  defending  a  civil  or criminal action or
  proceeding may be paid by  the  corporation  in  advance  of  the  final
  disposition  of such action or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking
  by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount as, and
  to the extent, required by subdivision one  of  section  seven  thousand
  twenty-two.


::: 7021:indemnification_of_directors_and_officers_by_a_court.html
 
    &#167; 7021.  Indemnification  of  directors  and  officers  by a court. 1.
  Notwithstanding the failure of a corporation to provide indemnification,
  and despite any contrary resolution of the board of directors or of  the
  stockholders  in  the specific case under section seven thousand twenty,
  indemnification shall be awarded by a court  to  the  extent  authorized
  under  section  seven  thousand  nineteen and subdivision one of section
  seven thousand twenty.  Application therefor may be made, in every case,
  either:
    (a) In the civil action or  proceeding  in  which  the  expenses  were
  incurred or other amounts were paid, or
    (b)  To  the supreme court in a separate proceeding, in which case the
  application shall set forth the disposition of any previous  application
  made  to  any  court  for the same or similar relief and also reasonable
  cause for the failure to make application for such relief in the  action
  or  proceeding in which the expenses were incurred or other amounts were
  paid.
    2. The application shall be made in such manner and  form  as  may  be
  required by the applicable rules of court or, in the absence thereof, by
  direction of a court to which it is made. Such application shall be upon
  notice  to  the  corporation.  The  court may also direct that notice be
  given at the expense of the corporation to  the  stockholders  and  such
  other persons as it may designate in such manner as it may require.
    3.  Where  indemnification is sought by judicial action, the court may
  allow a person such  reasonable  expenses,  including  attorneys'  fees,
  during  the  pendency  of  the litigation as are necessary in connection
  with his defense therein, if the court shall find that the defendant has
  by his pleadings or during the course of the litigation  raised  genuine
  issues of fact or law.


::: 7022:other_provisions_affecting_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 7022.  Other  provisions  affecting indemnification of directors and
  officers. 1. All expenses incurred in  defending  a  civil  or  criminal
  action  or  proceeding  which  are  advanced  by  the  corporation under
  subdivision three of section seven thousand twenty or allowed by a court
  under subdivision three of section seven thousand  twenty-one  shall  be
  repaid  in  case  the  person receiving such advancement or allowance is
  ultimately found, under the procedure set forth in this article, not  to
  be  entitled to indemnification or, where indemnification is granted, to
  the extent the expenses so advanced by the corporation or allowed by the
  court exceed the indemnification to which he is entitled.
    2. No indemnification, advancement or allowance shall  be  made  under
  this article in any circumstance where it appears:
    (a) That the indemnification would be inconsistent with a provision of
  the  organization certificate, a by-law, a resolution of the board or of
  the stockholders, an agreement or  other  proper  corporate  action,  in
  effect  at  the  time  of  the  accrual  of  the alleged cause of action
  asserted in the threatened or pending action or proceeding in which  the
  expenses  were  incurred  or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or
  otherwise limits indemnification; or
    (b) If there has been a settlement approved by  the  court,  that  the
  indemnification would be inconsistent with any condition with respect to
  indemnification   expressly  imposed  by  the  court  in  approving  the
  settlement.
    3. If any expenses or other amounts are paid by way of indemnification
  otherwise than by  court  order  or  action  by  the  stockholders,  the
  corporation   shall,   not   later  than  the  next  annual  meeting  of
  stockholders unless such meeting is held within three  months  from  the
  date  of such payment, and, in any event, within fifteen months from the
  date of such payment, mail to its stockholders of  record  at  the  time
  entitled  to  vote  for the election of directors a statement specifying
  the persons paid, the amounts paid, and the nature  and  status  at  the
  time of such payment of the litigation or threatened litigation.
    4.  If  any  action  with  respect to indemnification of directors and
  officers is taken by way of amendment  of  the  by-laws,  resolution  of
  directors,  or  by agreement, then the corporation shall, not later than
  the next annual meeting of shareholders, unless  such  meeting  is  held
  within  three  months  from  the  date  of such action and, in any event
  within fifteen months  from  the  date  of  such  action,  mail  to  its
  shareholders  of record at the time entitled to vote for the election of
  directors a statement specifying the action taken.
    5. No payment of indemnification, advancement or allowance under  this
  article  shall  be  made  unless  a  notice  has  been  filed  with  the
  superintendent, not  less  than  thirty  days  prior  to  such  payment,
  specifying the persons to be paid, the amounts to be paid, the manner in
  which such payment was authorized, and the nature and status at the time
  of the notice of the litigation or threatened litigation.


::: 7023:insurance_for_idemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 7023.  Insurance  for  idemnification of directors and officers. (a)
  Subject to subdivision (b), a corporation shall have power  to  purchase
  and maintain insurance:
    (1) To indemnify the corporation for any obligation which it incurs as
  a  result  of  the  indemnification  of directors and officers under the
  provisions of this article, and
    (2) To indemnify directors and officers in instances in which they may
  be indemnified by the corporation under the provisions of this  article,
  and
    (3)  To idemnify directors and officers in instances in which they may
  not otherwise be indemnified by the corporation under the provisions  of
  this  article provided the contract of insurance covering such directors
  and officers provides, in a manner acceptable to the  superintendent  of
  financial services, for a retention amount and for co-insurance.
    (b)  No  insurance  under subdivision (a) may provide for any payment,
  other than cost of defense, to or on behalf of any director or officer:
    (1) if a judgement or other final adjudication adverse to the  insured
  director  or  officer establishes that his acts of active and deliberate
  dishonesty were material to the cause of action so adjudicated, or  that
  he  personally  gained  in fact a financial profit or other advantage to
  which he was not legally entitled, or
    (2) in relation to any risk the insurance of which is prohibited under
  the insurance law of this state.
    (c) Insurance under any or all paragraphs of subdivision  (a)  may  be
  included in a single contract or supplement thereto. Retrospective rated
  contracts are prohibited.
    (d) The corporation shall, within the time and to the persons provided
  in  subdivision  three  of  section  seven  thousand  twenty-two, mail a
  statement in respect of any insurance it has purchased or renewed  under
  this  section,  specifying  the insurance carrier, date of the contract,
  cost of the insurance, corporate  positions  insured,  and  a  statement
  explaining   all  sums,  not  previously  reported  in  a  statement  to
  shareholders, paid under any indemnification insurance contract.
    (e) This section is the public policy of this state to spread the risk
  of corporate management, notwithstanding any other  general  or  special
  law  of  this  state  or of any other jurisdiction including the federal
  government.


::: 702:when_to_take_effect.html
 
    &#167; 702.  When  to  take effect. This act, except the repeal of chapters
  three hundred forty-eight of the laws of nineteen hundred ten and  three
  hundred  ninety-three of the laws of nineteen hundred eleven, shall take
  effect immediately; and the repeal of chapters three hundred forty-eight
  of the laws of nineteen hundred ten and three  hundred  ninety-three  of
  the  laws  of  nineteen  hundred  eleven,  shall take effect on November
  first, nineteen hundred fourteen.


::: 75-a:legislative_intent.html
 
     &#167; 75-a.   Legislative  intent.  The  legislature  hereby  finds  that
  automated teller machines are an integral part of consumers'  lives  and
  that  automated  teller  machines  are  used by millions of New Yorkers,
  statewide, on a daily basis. It is the legislature's  intent  to  ensure
  the   convenience   and  safety  of  automated  teller  machine  use  by
  establishing security measures for automated teller machine facilities.


::: 75-b:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 75-b. Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following terms
  shall have the following meanings:
    1.  "Access  device" means a card, code, or other means of access to a
  consumer's account, or any combination thereof, that may be used by  the
  consumer for the purpose of initiating electronic fund transfers.
    2.  "Automated  teller  machine" means a device which is linked to the
  accounts  and  records  of  a  banking  institution  and  which  enables
  consumers  to carry out banking transactions, including, but not limited
  to, account transfers, deposits, cash  withdrawals,  balance  inquiries,
  and loan payments.
    3.  "Automated  teller  machine  facility"  means  an  area within the
  dominion and control of a banking institution comprised of one  or  more
  automated teller machines and any adjacent space which is made available
  to banking customers after regular banking hours.
    4.  "Adequate  lighting" means (a) with respect to an automated teller
  machine facility located within the interior of a building, lighting, on
  a twenty-four hour basis, which permits a person entering such  facility
  to readily and easily see all persons occupying such facility, and which
  permits  a  person  inside  such  facility to readily and easily see all
  persons at the entry door of such facility.
    (b) with respect to an open and  operating  automated  teller  machine
  facility open to the outdoor air, and any defined parking area, lighting
  during nighttime hours according to the following standards:
    (i)  a  minimum  illuminance  of  five  footcandles is maintained on a
  horizontal plane at a point five feet outward from and five  feet  above
  the ground surface from the automated teller machine;
    (ii)  a  minimum  illuminance  of  two  footcandles is maintained on a
  horizontal plane at a point thirty feet in all  unobstructed  directions
  from the automated teller machine, measured at ground level; and
    (iii)  at sixty feet in all unobstructed directions from the automated
  teller machine, a minimum illuminance of one footcandle  is  maintained,
  measured  on  a vertical plane at five feet above ground level, with the
  normal to the plane of measurement aimed at a light source; or
    (iv) with respect to an automated teller machine facility that is  not
  in  accordance  with the standards set forth in either subparagraph (ii)
  or (iii) of this  paragraph,  or  both  such  subparagraphs,  a  minimum
  illuminance  of  two footcandles is maintained, measured on a horizontal
  plane at five feet above ground level, at fifty feet in all unobstructed
  directions from the automated teller machine.
    (c) with respect to an open and  operating  automated  teller  machine
  facility  located  within  the  interior  of  a building, which facility
  includes a defined parking  area:  (i)  a  minimum  illuminance  of  two
  footcandles  is  maintained on a horizontal plane at a point thirty feet
  in all unobstructed directions from the entrance to the automated teller
  machine facility, measured at ground level; and (ii) at  sixty  feet  in
  all  unobstructed  directions  from the entrance to the automated teller
  machine facility, a minimum illuminance of one footcandle is maintained,
  measured on a vertical plane at five feet above ground level,  with  the
  normal  to  the  plane  of measurement aimed at a light source; or (iii)
  with respect to an automated teller machine  facility  that  is  not  in
  accordance  with  the  standards set forth in either subparagraph (i) or
  (ii)  of  this  paragraph,  or  both  such  subparagraphs,   a   minimum
  illuminance  of  two footcandles is maintained, measured on a horizontal
  plane at five feet above ground level, at a  point  sixty  feet  in  all
  unobstructed  directions  from  the  entrance  to  the  automated teller
  machine facility.
    5. "Banking institution" means any state or federally chartered  bank,
  trust  company,  savings  bank,  savings and loan association, or credit
  union, whether headquartered  within  or  outside  of  the  state,  that
  operates  one  or  more  automated  teller machine facilities within the
  state.
    6.  "Footcandles" means the unit of illuminance equal to one lumen per
  square foot.
    7. "Regular banking hours" means the time at  which  an  office  of  a
  banking institution is open to the banking public for normal transaction
  of business.
    8. "Nighttime hours" means the period of time beginning thirty minutes
  after sunset and ending thirty minutes before sunrise.
    9.  (a)  "Defined parking area" means that portion of any parking area
  open for and accessible to customers of a banking institution which is:
    (1) contiguous to any paved walkway or sidewalk within fifty  feet  of
  an automated teller machine facility;
    (2)  regularly,  principally and lawfully used for parking by users of
  the automated teller machine facility while conducting  transactions  at
  such automated teller machine facility; and
    (3)  owned  or  leased by the operator of the automated teller machine
  facility, or owned or otherwise controlled  by  the  party  leasing  the
  automated teller machine facility site to the banking institution.
    (b)  The term "defined parking area" does not include any parking area
  which is not open or regularly used for parking  by  the  users  of  the
  automated  teller machine facility or the conduct of transactions during
  nighttime hours. For this purpose, the parking area is not open if it is
  physically closed to access or if conspicuous signs indicate that it  is
  closed.


::: 75-c:security_measures.html
 
    &#167; 75-c.  Security  measures.  Every banking institution shall maintain
  the following security measures with respect to each  of  the  automated
  teller machine facilities within its dominion and control:
    1.  A  surveillance camera or cameras, which shall view and record all
  persons entering an automated teller machine facility located within the
  interior of a building, or which shall  view  and  record  all  activity
  occurring within a minimum of three feet in front of an automated teller
  machine  located  outside  a  building and open to the outdoor air. Such
  camera or cameras need not  record  banking  transactions  made  at  the
  automated  teller machines. The recordings made by such cameras shall be
  preserved by the banking institution for at least forty-five days.
    2. Adequate lighting.
    3. With respect to an indoor automated teller  machine  facility:  (a)
  entry  doors  equipped  with  locking devices which permit entry to such
  facility only to persons using a magnetic-strip plastic card or  similar
  access device.
    (b)  To  the  extent  practicable,  as  determined  by  an expert with
  competence in such matters and as permitted by local building codes,  at
  least  one  exterior  wall  which  provides  an unobstructed view of the
  interior of the automated teller machine facility.
    (c) A reflective mirror or mirrors, as necessary,  placed  in  such  a
  manner as to permit a person entering an indoor automated teller machine
  facility to view areas within such facility that are otherwise concealed
  to plain view.
    (d) A clearly visible sign which, at a minimum, provides the following
  information:
    (1)  the  activity  of  the automated teller machine facility is being
  recorded by a surveillance camera or cameras;
    (2) customers should close the entry door completely upon entering and
  exiting;
    (3) customers should not permit any unknown  persons  to  enter  after
  regular banking hours;
    (4)  customers  should place withdrawn cash securely upon their person
  before exiting the automated teller machine facility;
    (5) complaints concerning security in  the  automated  teller  machine
  facility  should  be  directed  to  the  banking  institution's security
  department or  the  department  of  financial  services,  together  with
  telephone  numbers  for  such complaints, and that the nearest available
  public telephone  should  be  used  to  call  the  police  if  emergency
  assistance is needed.


::: 75-d:list_of_facilities.html
 
     &#167; 75-d. List of facilities. Any banking institution which operates an
  automated  teller  machine facility shall file a list of such facilities
  with  the  department,  including  the  street  addresses,  intersecting
  streets,  hours  of  operation,  and the telephone number of the banking
  institution's security department.  Such information shall also be filed
  with the department with respect to  each  additional  automated  teller
  machine   facility  within  a  reasonable  time,  as  specified  by  the
  superintendent,  from  the  date  upon  which  such  facility  commences
  operation.   The department shall make such list available on request of
  local law enforcement agencies and other local governmental entities.


::: 75-e:consumer_safety_information.html
 
     &#167; 75-e.  Consumer  safety  information. Upon the original issuance or
  reissuance of an automated teller machine facility  access  device,  the
  issuing  banking  institution  shall  provide its customers with written
  information concerning safety precautions to be employed while using  an
  automated  teller  machine  facility.  Such  written  information  shall
  include, at a minimum, the information described  in  paragraph  (d)  of
  subdivision three of section seventy-five-c of this article.


::: 75-f:enforcement_and_statistics.html
 
     &#167; 75-f.  Enforcement  and statistics. 1. The department is authorized
  to enforce this article.
    2. Statistics of crimes associated with the use  of  automated  teller
  machine facilities compiled and maintained by any law enforcement agency
  shall  be  made available upon the request of any banking institution or
  the department.


::: 75-g:report_of_compliance.html
 
    &#167; 75-g.  Report  of compliance. 1. By the fifteenth day of January and
  July of each year (or the following business day if such day  is  not  a
  business  day),  every banking institution which had an automated teller
  machine facility which was in operation on  the  fifteenth  day  of  the
  preceding  month  shall  submit  a  written  compliance  report  to  the
  department on a form prescribed by the superintendent,  certifying  that
  such  automated  teller  machine  facility  is  in  compliance  with the
  provisions of this article or any variance or exemption  that  has  been
  granted,  or if such facility is not in compliance with such provisions,
  stating  the  manner  in  which  such  facility  fails  to   meet   such
  requirements.  Notwithstanding article three of the state technology law
  or any other law to the contrary, the superintendent  may  require  that
  such  reports  and  any  other reports required by this section shall be
  made by electronic means, unless the superintendent, in his or her  sole
  discretion, grants a waiver of such electronic filing requirements, upon
  good cause shown.
    2.  If  any  compliance  report  required  by  subdivision one of this
  section indicates any failure to meet the requirements of this  article,
  such   banking   institution  shall  submit  a  written  report  to  the
  department, on a form prescribed by the superintendent,  no  later  than
  the  eleventh  business day following such compliance report, indicating
  whether each such failure has been corrected and, for any  failure  that
  has  not  been  corrected,  the reason for such failure and the expected
  correction date.   If any such failure shall  not  have  been  corrected
  within ten business days of the filing date of the applicable compliance
  report,  such  banking institution shall, promptly after correcting such
  failure, submit a written report to the  department  with  the  date  or
  dates of each such correction.


::: 75-h:compliance_with_local_building_code_and_all_other_applicable_provisions_of_law.html
 
     &#167; 75-h.  Compliance with local building code and all other applicable
  provisions of law. Unless otherwise provided in  this  article,  nothing
  contained  in  this  article shall be construed to exempt or relieve any
  banking institution from complying with all relevant provisions  of  the
  local building code and all other applicable provisions of law.


::: 75-i:facilities_not_subject_to_this_article.html
 
     &#167; 75-i.    Facilities not subject to this article.  The provisions of
  this article shall not apply to any unenclosed automated teller  machine
  located  in  any  building,  structure or space whose primary purpose or
  function is unrelated to banking activities, including but  not  limited
  to  supermarkets,  airports,  school  buildings,  and  public buildings,
  provided that such automated teller machine shall be available  for  use
  only  during  the regular hours of operation of the building, structure,
  or space in which such machine is located.


::: 75-j:civil_penalties.html
 
    &#167; 75-j.  Civil  penalties.  1.  Any banking institution found to be in
  violation of any provision of section seventy-five-c of this article  in
  a  compliance  report  under  section  seventy-five-g of this article or
  otherwise found by the department to be in violation of any provision of
  section seventy-five-c of  this  article  shall  correct  the  violation
  within ten business days after such finding. Where a banking institution
  fails  to correct any violation of a provision of section seventy-five-c
  of this article within ten business days after the filing of such report
  or a finding of violation by the department, the superintendent may in a
  proceeding after notice and a hearing, require such banking  institution
  to  pay  a  civil penalty in an amount as determined pursuant to section
  forty-four of  this  chapter,  provided,  however,  that  the  aggregate
  penalty  for  all  offenses  with  respect  to  any one automated teller
  machine facility in any one proceeding shall not  exceed  an  amount  as
  determined  pursuant  to  section  forty-four  of  this chapter. For the
  purposes of this article, each violation of  section  seventy-five-c  of
  this article shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
    2.  Any banking institution found to be in violation of the provisions
  of section seventy-five-g of this article shall be liable  for  a  civil
  penalty  in  an amount as determined pursuant to section forty-four-a of
  this chapter for each automated teller  machine  facility  for  which  a
  report  has  not  been  filed.  Any  banking  institution  which makes a
  material false statement  or  material  omission  in  any  report  filed
  pursuant to section seventy-five-g of this article shall be liable for a
  civil   penalty   in   an  amount  as  determined  pursuant  to  section
  forty-four-a of this chapter for each such report.
    3. Whenever payment of a civil penalty is required under this article,
  the superintendent shall execute a written order to that effect. A  copy
  of  such  order  shall  be  filed  in the office of the department and a
  second copy shall, within three days of execution, be served  upon  such
  banking  institution  either  personally  or  by registered or certified
  mail, return receipt requested, directed to  the  banking  institution's
  principal  place  of  business. Such order may be reviewed in the manner
  provided by article seventy-eight of the civil practice law  and  rules.
  Such  special  proceedings for review as authorized by such section must
  be commenced within thirty days from the service  of  such  order.  Such
  section  shall  in  no  way  limit  any  of  the  powers  granted to the
  superintendent under any provision of this chapter.


::: 75-k:collection_of_penalties.html
 
     &#167; 75-k.  Collection  of  penalties. The superintendent shall have the
  discretion to report to the attorney  general  any  failure,  after  due
  notice,  to  make payments of penalties incurred under this article. The
  attorney general shall, thereupon, in the name of the superintendent, or
  of the people of the state, institute such actions or proceedings as the
  facts may warrant.


::: 75-l:preemption.html
 
     &#167; 75-l.  Preemption. 1. Except as provided in subdivision two of this
  section,  this  article  shall  supersede   and   preempt   all   rules,
  regulations,  codes,  statutes  or  ordinances  of all cities, counties,
  municipalities,  and  local  agencies  regarding  customer   safety   at
  automated teller machine facilities.
    2.  To  the  extent that any security measures inconsistent with or in
  addition to the provisions of section seventy-five-c of this article are
  in effect, on the date on which this article becomes a law, in any  city
  having  a  population  of  one  million  or more, pursuant to any rules,
  regulations, codes, statutes or ordinances regarding customer safety  at
  automated  teller  machine  facilities  duly  enacted by such city on or
  before the date on which this  article  becomes  a  law,  such  security
  measures  shall  continue  to  be  required  within such city; provided,
  however, that the enforcement of any such  security  measures  shall  be
  enforced by the superintendent.


::: 75-m:variances_and_exemptions_from_automated_teller_machine_security_measures.html
 
     &#167; 75-m.  Variances  and  exemptions  from  automated  teller  machine
  security measures. 1. Except  in  cities  having  a  population  of  one
  million or more, and in accordance with the guidelines set forth in this
  article,   the   superintendent,   pursuant  to  rules  and  regulations
  promulgated by the superintendent, and upon written request of a banking
  institution, may approve variances  which  provide  substitute  security
  measures  that  are  substantially as safe as the requirements of any of
  the security measures contained in this article, or exemptions from such
  measures, with respect  to  an  automated  teller  machine  facility  or
  facilities operated by such banking institution;
    2.  In  no event, however, shall the superintendent vary or exempt any
  such measures unless he or she shall have received the following  items,
  in form and substance satisfactory to him or her:
    (a)  a  resolution  or  declaration of the governing body of the city,
  village, or town in which such  automated  teller  machine  facility  is
  located consenting to any such variance or exemption; and
    (b)  written  certification  from  the  banking institution's security
  officer, appointed in accordance with federal law, that, in his  or  her
  professional   judgment,  either  the  variance  will  provide  security
  measures which are substantially as safe as those  which  are  otherwise
  required  by  this article or the exemption is warranted, as applicable;
  and
    (c) in the event the request for any such  variance  or  exemption  is
  premised  upon  the  impracticability  or  burdensome expense that would
  result from compliance with the security provisions  contained  in  this
  article,  and  such  impracticability  or expense is attributable to the
  manner in which the building in  which  such  automated  teller  machine
  facility  is, or is to be, located, constructed, configured or otherwise
  situated, written certification to  such  effect  from  an  expert  with
  competence  in  the  areas  of  renovation  and/or  design,  as  may  be
  appropriate; and
    (d) such other evidence or information as the superintendent  may,  in
  his or her sole discretion, deem appropriate or necessary.


::: 75-n:rules_and_regulations.html
 
     &#167; 75-n.  Rules  and  regulations. The superintendent shall promulgate
  such rules and regulations as necessary  to  define  and  implement  the
  provisions of this article.


::: 75-o:severability.html
 
     &#167; 75-o.   Severability.   If  any  word,  phrase,  clause,  sentence,
  paragraph, section or part of this article  shall  be  adjudged  by  any
  court  of  competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not
  affect, impair  or  invalidate  the  remainder  thereof,  but  shall  be
  confined  in  its  operation  to  the  word,  phrase,  clause, sentence,
  paragraph, section or part thereof directly involved in the  controversy
  in which judgment shall have been rendered.


::: 76:short_title.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A2-B","LAW")> Article 2-B</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
 Requested page has expired.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: 77:criminal_investigations_bureau.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A2-B","LAW")> Article 2-B</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
 Requested page has expired.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: 78:powers_with_respect_to_certain_crimes_and_frauds.html
 
    &#167; 78.  Powers  with  respect  to  certain  crimes  and  frauds. If the
  superintendent has a reasonable suspicion that a  person  or  entity  is
  engaging  in or has engaged in fraud (as interpreted under this chapter,
  the insurance law or the financial services law)  or  a  misdemeanor  or
  felony  under  this  chapter  or  one  of  the articles of the penal law
  enumerated in this section in connection with  activities  regulated  by
  the  superintendent  pursuant  to  this  chapter  or involving a product
  regulated pursuant to this chapter,  the  superintendent  may  undertake
  such  investigation  as  is  deemed necessary, and in the enforcement of
  this chapter, determine whether any such person or entity  has  violated
  or is about to violate this chapter or any such enumerated articles. The
  applicable articles of the penal law are article one hundred fifty-five,
  one  hundred seventy, one hundred seventy-five, one hundred seventy-six,
  one hundred eighty, one hundred eighty-five, one  hundred  eighty-seven,
  one  hundred  ninety,  two  hundred,  two  hundred  ten  or four hundred
  seventy. Notwithstanding the  above-referenced  laws  or  articles,  the
  scope  of  authority  set  forth  in this section shall not be deemed to
  otherwise limit or impair the ability of the department  to  assist  any
  other entity in an investigation involving a violation of law.


::: 79:immunity.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A2-B","LAW")> Article 2-B</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
 Requested page has expired.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: 7:payment_of_dividends_or_interest_upon_unclaimed_deposits_or_shares_limitation_of_charges_in_connection_with_savings_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 7.  Payment  of  dividends  or  interest  upon unclaimed deposits or
  shares; limitation of charges in connection with savings accounts. 1. No
  banking organization or foreign banking corporation transacting business
  in this state shall discontinue the payment of dividends or interest  on
  any  deposit  made  with such organization or corporation, or reduce the
  rate at which dividends or interest is paid, solely because such deposit
  is inactive or unclaimed, except that payment of dividends  or  interest
  may  be discontinued for the period following June thirtieth of the year
  in which the deposit is  paid  to  the  state  comptroller  pursuant  to
  section  three  hundred  three  of  the  abandoned property law. A share
  issued by a savings and loan association or by a credit union  shall  be
  deemed a deposit for the purposes of this section.
    2.  No banking organization or foreign banking corporation transacting
  business in this state shall impose any service charge  on  an  inactive
  savings  account which is higher than the service charge imposed by such
  organization or corporation on  an  active  savings  account;  provided,
  however,  that a banking organization or foreign banking corporation may
  impose a reasonable charge on an  inactive  savings  account  for  costs
  related  to  or  incurred  as  a  result  of  the payment or delivery of
  abandoned property to the state comptroller pursuant  to  the  abandoned
  property law.
    3.  The  superintendent  of  financial  services  may  promulgate such
  regulations as it deems necessary and proper to implement and define the
  provisions of this section.


::: 8001:right_to_amend_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 8001.  Right to amend organization certificate. 1. A corporation may
  amend its organization certificate, from time to time,  in  any  and  as
  many  respects  as  may be desired, if such amendment contains only such
  provisions as might be lawfully contained in  an  original  organization
  certificate filed at the time of making such amendment.
    2.  In  particular,  and without limitation upon such general power of
  amendment, a corporation may amend its  organization  certificate,  from
  time to time, so as:
    (a) To change its corporate name.
    (b)  In  the  case of a bank or trust company, to change its corporate
  powers in accordance with section ninety-four.
    (c) To extend the duration of the corporation or, if  the  corporation
  ceased  to  exist because of the expiration of the duration specified in
  its organization certificate, to revive its existence.
    (d) To increase or decrease the number of its directors, or to provide
  that the number of its directors shall be not less than a stated minimum
  nor more than a stated maximum; provided that in either case the  number
  of  directors  shall  not  be  less  than the minimum prescribed in this
  chapter, and provided further that the number of the  directors  may  be
  increased  notwithstanding  any maximum number prescribed by any special
  law.
    (e) To increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares, or  shares
  of  any  class  or series, which the corporation shall have authority to
  issue.
    (f) To eliminate from authorized shares any class of  shares,  or  any
  shares of any class, whether issued or unissued.
    (g)  To  increase the par value of any authorized shares of any class,
  whether issued or unissued.
    (h) To reduce the par value of any authorized  shares  of  any  class,
  whether issued or unissued.
    (i)  To change any authorized shares, whether issued or unissued, into
  a different number of shares of the same class or into  the  same  or  a
  different  number  of  shares  of  any one or more classes or any series
  thereof.
    (j) To fix, change or abolish the designation of any authorized  class
  or  any  series  thereof, or any of the relative rights, preferences and
  limitations of any shares of any authorized class or any series thereof,
  whether issued or unissued, including any provisions in respect  of  any
  undeclared  dividends,  whether  or  not  cumulative  or accrued, or the
  redemption of any shares, or any preemptive right to acquire  shares  or
  other securities.
    (k)  As  to  the  shares  of  any preferred class, then or theretofore
  authorized, which may be issued in series, to  grant  authority  to  the
  board or to change or revoke the authority of the board to establish and
  designate  series  and  to  fix  the  number  of shares and the relative
  rights, preferences and limitations as between series.
    (l) To strike out, change or add any provision, not inconsistent  with
  this  chapter  or  any  other  statute,  relating to the business of the
  corporation, its affairs, its rights or powers, or the rights or  powers
  of  its  stockholders,  directors  or  officers, including any provision
  which under this chapter is required or permitted to be set forth in the
  by-laws.
    3. A corporation created by special act  may  accomplish  any  or  all
  amendments  permitted  in  this  title, in the manner and subject to the
  conditions provided in this subarticle.
    4. A corporation may not change the location of its office under  this
  section.


::: 8002:reduction_of_capital_stock_by_amendment.html
 
    &#167; 8002.  Reduction  of  capital  stock by amendment. A corporation may
  reduce its capital stock by an amendment of its organization certificate
  under section eight thousand one which:
    1. Reduces the par value of any issued shares.
    2. Changes issued shares under subdivision two (i)  of  section  eight
  thousand one and results in a reduction of capital stock.
    3. Eliminates from authorized shares, shares that have been issued and
  reacquired by the corporation.


::: 8003:authorization_of_amendment_or_change.html
 
    &#167; 8003.  Authorization  of  amendment  or  change. 1. Amendment of the
  organization certificate may be authorized by vote of the holders  of  a
  majority of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon at a meeting
  of stockholders.
    2.  This  section  shall  not  alter  the vote required by section six
  thousand sixteen or seven thousand nine for the adoption of an amendment
  referred to therein, nor alter the authority of the board  to  authorize
  amendments  under  section five thousand two, subdivision six of section
  five thousand fourteen, or section five thousand sixteen.


::: 8004:class_voting_on_amendment.html
 
    &#167; 8004. Class voting on amendment. 1. Notwithstanding any provision in
  the  organization  certificate,  the  holders  of  shares  of a class or
  series, shall be entitled to vote and  to  vote  as  a  class  upon  the
  authorization  of  an amendment and, in addition to the authorization of
  the amendment by vote of the holders of a majority  of  all  outstanding
  shares  entitled  to  vote thereon, the amendment shall be authorized by
  vote of the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the class
  or series when a proposed amendment would:
    (a) Exclude or limit their right to vote on any matter, except as such
  right may be limited by voting rights given to  new  shares  then  being
  authorized of any existing or new class or series;
    (b)  Change  their  shares  under  subdivision  two (h), (i) or (j) of
  section eight thousand one or provide that their shares may be converted
  into shares of any other class or into shares of any other series of the
  same class, or alter the terms or conditions upon which their shares are
  convertible or change the  shares  issuable  upon  conversion  of  their
  shares, if such action would adversely affect such holders; or
    (c) Subordinate their rights, by authorizing shares having preferences
  which would be in any respect superior to their rights.
    2.  If  any  proposed  amendment  referred to in subdivision one would
  adversely affect or subordinate the rights of the holders of  shares  of
  only  one  or  more  series of any class, but not the entire class, then
  only the holders of each series whose rights would be adversely affected
  or subordinated shall be considered a separate class for the purposes of
  this section.


::: 8005:certificate_of_amendment_or_of_change_contents.html
 
    &#167; 8005.  Certificate  of  amendment  or  of  change;  contents.  1. To
  accomplish any amendment or change, a certificate of amendment, entitled
  "Certificate of amendment of the organization certificate of ...........
  (name of corporation) under section 8005 of the Banking  Law"  shall  be
  signed, verified and filed as provided in section one thousand three. It
  shall set forth:
    (a)  The name of the corporation and, if it has been changed, the name
  under which it was formed.
    (b)  The  date  its  organization  certificate  was   filed   by   the
  superintendent.
    (c) Each amendment effected thereby.
    (d)  If  any  such  amendment  provides for a change or elimination of
  issued shares, and if the manner in which the same shall be effected  is
  not set forth in such amendment, then a statement of the manner in which
  the same shall be effected.
    (e)  If  any  amendment reduces capital stock, then a statement of the
  manner in which the same is effected and the amounts from which  and  to
  which capital stock is reduced.
    (f)  The manner in which the amendment of the organization certificate
  was authorized.
    2. Any number  of  amendments  or  changes  may  be  included  in  one
  certificate  under  this  section. Such certificate may also include any
  amendments or changes permitted by other sections and in that  case  the
  certificate  shall  set  forth  any additional statement required by any
  other section specifying the contents of a certificate  to  effect  such
  amendment or change.
    3.  In  the case of a change of shares, the shares resulting from such
  change shall, upon the filing of the certificate of amendment under this
  section, be deemed substituted for the  shares  changed,  in  accordance
  with the stated terms of the change.


::: 8006:provisions_as_to_certain_proceedings.html
 
    &#167; 8006.  Provisions  as  to certain proceedings. 1. The superintendent
  shall not file a certificate of amendment reviving the  existence  of  a
  corporation  unless  the  consent  of  the  state  tax commission to the
  revival  is  delivered  to  the  superintendent.  If  the  name  of  the
  corporation  being revived is not available under section three thousand
  one for use by a corporation then being formed under this  chapter,  the
  certificate of amendment shall change the name to one which is available
  for such use.
    2.  The  following  provisions  shall  apply to amendments and changes
  under this title:
    (a) Any changes that may be made in the relative  rights,  preferences
  and limitations of the authorized shares of any class by any certificate
  of amendment which does not eliminate such shares from authorized shares
  or  change  them into shares of another class, shall not for the purpose
  of any statute or rule of law effect an issue of a new class of shares.
    (b) No amendment or change shall affect any existing cause  of  action
  in  favor of or against the corporation, or any pending suit to which it
  shall be  a  party,  or  the  existing  rights  of  persons  other  than
  stockholders;  and  in the event the corporate name shall be changed, no
  suit brought by or against the corporation under its former  name  shall
  abate for that reason.
    (c) A holder of any adversely affected shares who does not vote for or
  consent in writing to the taking of such action shall, subject to and by
  complying  with  the provisions of section six thousand twenty-two, have
  the right to dissent and to receive payment  for  such  shares,  if  the
  certificate  of amendment (1) alters or abolishes any preferential right
  of any outstanding shares having preferences; or (2) creates, alters  or
  abolishes  any  provision  or  right in respect of the redemption of any
  outstanding shares; or (3) alters or abolishes any preemptive  right  of
  such  holder  to  acquire shares or other securities; or (4) excludes or
  limits the right of such holder to vote on any matter,  except  as  such
  right may be limited by the voting rights given to new shares then being
  authorized of any existing or new class.


::: 8007:restated_organization_certificate.html
 
    &#167; 8007.  Restated  organization  certificate.  1.  A corporation, when
  authorized by the board, may restate in a single certificate the text of
  its organization certificate, as amended theretofore, without making any
  further amendment or change thereby, except that it may include any  one
  or  more  of  the  amendments  or changes which may be authorized by the
  board without a vote of stockholders under this chapter.  Alternatively,
  a  corporation  may  restate  in  a  single  certificate the text of its
  organization certificate, as amended theretofore, and as further amended
  thereby to  effect  any  one  or  more  of  the  amendments  or  changes
  authorized  by this chapter, when authorized by the required vote of the
  holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
    2. A restated organization certificate entitled "Restated organization
  certificate of ............. (name of corporation) under section 8007 of
  the Banking Law" shall be signed, verified  and  filed  as  provided  in
  section one thousand three. It shall set forth:
    (a)  The name of the corporation and, if it has been changed, the name
  under which it was formed.
    (b)  The  date  its  organization  certificate  was   filed   by   the
  superintendent.
    (c)  If the restated certificate restates the text of the organization
  certificate,  as  amended  theretofore,  without  making   any   further
  amendment  or change, then a statement that the text of the organization
  certificate, as amended theretofore, is thereby restated without further
  amendment or change to read as therein set forth in full.
    (d) If the restated certificate restates the text of the  organization
  certificate,  as  amended theretofore, and as further amended or changed
  thereby, then a statement that the organization certificate  is  amended
  or changed to effect one or more of the amendments or changes authorized
  by  this  chapter, specifying each such amendment or change and that the
  text of the organization certificate, as amended theretofore, is thereby
  restated as further amended or changed to read as therein set  forth  in
  full.
    (e)  If  any  such  amendment,  effected  by the restated certificate,
  provides for a change or elimination of issued shares, and if the manner
  in which the same shall be effected is not set forth in such  amendment,
  then a statement of the manner in which the same shall be effected.
    (f)  If the restated certificate contains an amendment which effects a
  reduction of capital stock, then a statement of the manner in which  the
  same  is  effected and the amounts from which and to which capital stock
  is reduced.
    (g)  The  manner  in  which  the  restatement  of   the   organization
  certificate was authorized.
    3.  A  restated  certificate  need  not  include  statements as to the
  incorporators,  the  original  subscribers  for  shares  or  the   first
  directors.
    4.  Any amendment or change under this section shall be subject to any
  other section, not  inconsistent  with  this  section,  which  would  be
  applicable if a separate certificate were filed to effect such amendment
  or change.
    5.  Upon  filing  by  the  superintendent,  the  original organization
  certificate,  as  amended  theretofore,  shall  be  superseded  and  the
  restated  organization certificate, including any further amendments and
  changes made thereby, shall  be  the  organization  certificate  of  the
  corporation.


::: 80:other_law_enforcement_authority_powers_and_duties_not_affected_or_impaired.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A2-B","LAW")> Article 2-B</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
 Requested page has expired.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: 85:community_bank_deposit_program_purpose.html
 
    &#167;  85.  Community bank deposit program; purpose. In recognition of the
  economic benefits and  stimulus  which  result  from  the  placement  of
  deposits  in  local  banks, the community bank deposit program is hereby
  created to  authorize  and  encourage  the  state  comptroller  and  the
  commissioner  of  taxation and finance to deposit a portion of the funds
  under their control into community banking institutions.


::: 86:eligibility.html
 
    &#167;  86. Eligibility. 1. To be eligible to receive deposits, or to renew
  existing deposits under this program, a  bank,  trust  company,  savings
  bank  or  savings  and loan association: (a) must be chartered under the
  provisions of this chapter and (b) must have a  current  CRA  rating  of
  satisfactory  or  better.  The superintendent shall, if requested by the
  state comptroller or the commissioner of taxation and  finance,  confirm
  whether a particular banking institution meets the criteria specified in
  this section.
    2.  A  federal  bank,  trust company, savings bank or savings and loan
  association may also be  eligible  to  receive  deposits,  or  to  renew
  existing  deposits,  under  this program if: (a) its principal office is
  located in this state; (b) it has a current CRA rating  of  satisfactory
  or  better;  and (c) it meets any additional criteria established by the
  comptroller and the commissioner of taxation and  finance  to  determine
  eligibility  for participation in the program. Such criteria may include
  an institution's loan to deposit ratio, its  record  of  small  business
  lending,  and  the impact such deposits would have on an area's economic
  activity.


::: 87:deposits.html
 
    &#167;  87.  Deposits.  1.  Notwithstanding  any  provisions  of law to the
  contrary, the state comptroller and the  commissioner  of  taxation  and
  finance  shall,  for  the purposes of administering moneys in accordance
  with the provisions of sections ninety-eight-a and one hundred  five  of
  the state finance law, give consideration to depositing funds into those
  community  banking  institutions  which  are  deemed eligible to receive
  deposits pursuant to section eighty-six of this article.
    2. The maximum amount of funds which the  state  comptroller  and  the
  commissioner  of  taxation  and  finance  may deposit under this program
  shall not exceed two hundred fifty million  dollars  each.  The  maximum
  amount  of funds on deposit at a community banking institution shall not
  exceed twenty million dollars.
    3. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, any  deposits
  made  pursuant  to  this  article  shall  be made at rates, and for such
  periods of time, as may be agreed to by the  state  comptroller  or  the
  commissioner  of taxation and finance and the eligible community banking
  institution.
    4. Any deposits made pursuant to this article may  be  secured  by  an
  irrevocable letter of credit issued by a federal home loan bank.


::: 8:deposits_by_custodian_designated_by_administrator_of_veterans_affairs_or_by_person_certified_by_social_security_administration.html
 
    &#167; 8.  Deposits  by  custodian designated by administrator of veterans'
  affairs, or by person certified by social security administration.  When
  any deposit shall be made for the benefit of an individual by the person
  who has  been  designated  the  custodian  of  such  individual  by  the
  administrator  of  veterans' affairs pursuant to the provisions of title
  thirty-eight, United States code, "Veterans' Benefits", as  amended,  or
  when  a  deposit  shall  be  made  for the benefit of an individual by a
  person who has been certified by the social security  administration  as
  the  person to whom payment for the benefit of such individual should be
  made pursuant to the provisions of  an  act  of  congress  entitled  the
  "Social  Security  Act",  the  deposit,  together  with  any interest or
  dividends credited thereon,  may  be  paid  to  such  custodian  or  his
  successor  designated  by  the  administrator of veterans' affairs or to
  such  person  or  his  successor  certified  by  the   social   security
  administration,  and  the  receipt  or  acquittance of such custodian or
  person or such successor shall be a valid  and  sufficient  release  and
  discharge to the depositary for any payment so made.


::: 9-a:defense_of_ultra_vires.html
 
  &#167; 9-a. Defense of ultra vires.
    No act of a corporation formed under this chapter, or of a corporation
  formed  under  any other statute or special act having as its purpose or
  among its purposes a purpose for which a corporation may be formed under
  this chapter, and no transfer of real or personal property to or by such
  a corporation, otherwise lawful, shall be invalid by reason of the  fact
  that  the corporation was without capacity or power to do such act or to
  make or receive such transfer, but such lack of capacity or power may be
  asserted:
    1. In an action by a stockholder or member against the corporation  to
  enjoin the doing of any act or the transfer of real or personal property
  by  or to the corporation. If the unauthorized act or transfer sought to
  be enjoined is being, or is to be, performed or made under any  contract
  to  which  the  corporation  is  a  party,  the court may, if all of the
  parties to the contract are parties to the action and if  it  deems  the
  same  to  be  equitable,  set  aside  and enjoin the performance of such
  contract, and in so doing may allow to the corporation or to  the  other
  parties to the contract, as the case may be, such compensation as may be
  equitable  for  the  loss  or  damage  sustained by any of them from the
  action of the court in setting aside and enjoining  the  performance  of
  such  contract; provided that anticipated profits to be derived from the
  performance of the contract shall not be awarded by the court as a  loss
  or damage sustained.
    2.  In  an  action  by or in the right of the corporation to procure a
  judgment in its favor against an incumbent or former officer or director
  of the corporation for loss or damage due to his unauthorized act.
    3. In an action or special proceeding by  the  superintendent  or  the
  attorney-general  to  annul  or dissolve the corporation or to enjoin it
  from the doing of unauthorized business.


::: 9-b:actions_or_special_proceedings_by_superintendent_or_attorneygeneral.html
 
  &#167; 9-b.   Actions   or   special   proceedings   by   superintendent   or
           attorney-general.
    1. In addition to any  action  or  special  proceeding  which  may  be
  maintained  by  either  of them under any other section of this chapter,
  the superintendent or the attorney-general may  maintain  an  action  or
  special proceeding:
    (a)  To annul the corporate existence or dissolve a corporation formed
  under any article of this chapter or formed under any other  statute  or
  special  act  having  as its purpose or among its purposes a purpose for
  which a corporation may be formed under  this  chapter  that  has  acted
  beyond  its  capacity  or  power  or  to  restrain  it from the doing of
  unauthorized business.
    (b) To annul the corporate existence or dissolve any such  corporation
  that has not been duly formed.
    (c)  To  restrain  any  person  or  persons  from  acting  as  such  a
  corporation within this state without being duly  incorporated  or  from
  exercising  in this state any corporate rights, privileges or franchises
  not granted to them by the law of the state.
    (d) To dissolve a corporation under section nine-c.
    2. In any action or special proceeding brought under this section:
    (a) If an action, it is triable by jury as a matter of right.
    (b) The court may confer immunity in accordance with the provisions of
  section 50.20 of the criminal procedure law.
    (c) A temporary  restraining  order  to  restrain  the  commission  or
  continuance  of  the unlawful acts which form the basis of the action or
  special proceeding may be granted upon proof,  by  affidavit,  that  the
  defendant or defendants have committed or are about to commit such acts.
  Application for such restraining order may be made ex parte or upon such
  notice as the court may direct.
    (d)  When  final  judgment  in  such  action  or special proceeding is
  rendered against the defendant or defendants, the court may  direct  the
  costs  to be collected by execution against any or all of the defendants
  or by order of attachment or other process against  the  person  of  any
  director or officer of a corporate defendant.
    (e)  In connection with any such proposed action or special proceeding
  the superintendent or the attorney-general  may  take  proof  and  issue
  subpoenas in accordance with the civil practice law and rules.


::: 9-c:superintendents_or_attorneygenerals_action_for_judicial_dissolution.html
 
  &#167; 9-c. Superintendent's   or   attorney-general's  action  for  judicial
           dissolution.
    1. The superintendent or the attorney-general may bring an action  for
  the  dissolution  of  a  corporation  formed  under  any article of this
  chapter or formed under any other statute or special act having  as  its
  purpose  or  among its purposes a purpose for which a corporation may be
  formed under this chapter upon one or more of the following grounds:
    (a) That the corporation procured  its  formation  through  fraudulent
  misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact.
    (b)  That the corporation has exceeded the authority conferred upon it
  by law, or has violated any provision of law whereby  it  has  forfeited
  its  charter,  or  carried on, conducted or transacted its business in a
  persistently fraudulent or illegal manner, or by the abuse of its powers
  contrary to the public policy of the  state  has  become  liable  to  be
  dissolved.
    2.  An  action  under  this  section is triable by jury as a matter of
  right.
    3. The enumeration in subdivision one of grounds for dissolution shall
  not exclude actions or special proceedings by  the  superintendent,  the
  attorney-general   or   other  state  officials  for  the  annulment  or
  dissolution of a corporation  for  other  causes  as  provided  in  this
  chapter or in any other statute of this state.


::: 9-d:enforcement_of_section_two_hundred_ninetysixa_of_the_executive_law.html
 
    &#167; 9-d.   Enforcement  of  section  two  hundred  ninety-six-a  of  the
  executive  law.  In  addition  to  the   powers   conferred   upon   the
  superintendent  of  financial services by this chapter, he shall enforce
  section two hundred ninety-six-a of the executive  law  by  taking  such
  action as is therein authorized.


::: 9-f:geographic_discrimination_in_making_mortgage_loans_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 9-f.  Geographic discrimination in making mortgage loans prohibited.
  1.  No banking institution as such term is defined in this section shall
  refuse to make a prudent loan upon the  security  of  real  property  or
  otherwise  discriminate  with  respect thereto because of the geographic
  location of such  property  if  such  property  is  located  within  the
  geographic area ordinarily serviced by such bank or within the community
  within  which  the  principal  or  any  branch  office  of such banks is
  located. A violation of the provisions  of  this  subdivision  shall  be
  subject  to  the  applicable  provisions  of  sections  thirty-nine  and
  forty-four of this chapter.
    2. Any person who makes application for such a  loan  and  is  refused
  such  loan  may  request the superintendent to review the denial of such
  application. If the superintendent determines that such loan was prudent
  and  was  denied  in  violation   of   subdivision   one   hereof,   the
  superintendent shall certify such determination to the state of New York
  mortgage  agency created pursuant to title seventeen of article eight of
  the public authorities law.
    3. For the purposes of this section, the term (a) "prudent loan" means
  a loan upon the security of real property which is prudent by acceptable
  banking standards and is in compliance with all  of  the  provisions  of
  this  chapter,  regulations  of the superintendent of financial services
  and rules of the  superintendent;  and  (b)  notwithstanding  any  other
  provision  of  this  chapter  or  law  to the contrary, the term banking
  institution when used in this section shall mean and include all  banks,
  trust  companies,  savings  banks, savings and loan associations, credit
  unions, mortgage bankers, exempt organizations  as  defined  in  article
  twelve-D  of  this  chapter  and  foreign  banking  corporations whether
  incorporated, chartered, organized or licensed under the  laws  of  this
  state or any other state or the United States.
    4.  If  any  clause,  sentence, paragraph, subdivision or part of this
  section or the application thereof to any person, firm  or  corporation,
  or circumstance shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction
  to  be  invalid  or  unconstitutional,  such  judgment shall not affect,
  impair or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined (i) in
  its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision,  or  part
  of  this  section,  or  (ii)  in  its application to the person, firm or
  corporation, or circumstance, directly involved in  the  controversy  in
  which such judgment shall have been rendered.


::: 9-g:right_of_set_off.html
 
    &#167; 9-g. Right of set off. 1. No banking institution shall assert, claim
  or  exercise any right of set off against any deposit account into which
  social security or supplemental security income payments  are  deposited
  pursuant  to  an  agreement with such banking institution which provides
  that such payments be  deposited  directly  into  such  deposit  account
  without presentation to the depositor at the time of deposit.
    2. No banking institution shall assert, claim or exercise any right of
  set  off  against  any  other  deposit  account  held  by  such  banking
  institution unless, prior to or on the same business day of such action,
  notice of the set off together with the reasons  for  the  set  off  are
  mailed to the depositor.
    3. Failure to provide the notice required by this section shall not be
  deemed to affect the validity of the right of set off.
    4.  "Banking  institution" as used in this section shall have the same
  meaning as used in section nine-f of this chapter.
    5. "Depositor" as used in this section shall include  shareholders  in
  state  and  federal  savings and loan associations and state and federal
  credit unions.
    6. "Deposit account" as used in this section shall include shares  and
  share  accounts  of  state and federal savings and loan associations and
  state and federal credit unions.
    7. If any provision of  this  section,  or  the  application  of  such
  provision  to  any  bank,  trust  company,  national bank, savings bank,
  federal mutual savings  bank,  savings  and  loan  association,  federal
  savings  and  loan  association,  credit  union, federal credit union or
  branch of a foreign banking corporation,  shall  be  held  invalid,  the
  remainder of this section, and the application of such section to banks,
  trust  companies,  national banks, savings banks, federal mutual savings
  banks,  savings  and  loan  associations,  federal  savings   and   loan
  associations,  credit  unions,  federal  credit  unions  or  branches of
  foreign banking corporations other  than  those  to  which  it  is  held
  invalid, shall not be affected thereby.


::: 9-h:imposition_of_service_charges_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 9-h.   Imposition   of   service   charges  prohibited.  No  banking
  organization shall impose any service charge with respect to any deposit
  account as a result of the loss of a check or money  which  is  properly
  deposited  with  the  banking organization by delivery to an employee of
  the banking organization for credit to the deposit account and for which
  a written receipt is issued by the employee.


::: 9-i*2:prohibition_on_depositor_of_early_withdrawal_penalty_in_certain_cases.html
 
    * &#167; 9-i.  Prohibition  on  depositor  of  early  withdrawal penalty in
  certain cases. No banking  institution,  as  that  term  is  defined  in
  section  nine-f  of  this  chapter,  shall  impose  any  penalty for the
  repayment of a time deposit prior to maturity where  the  depositor  has
  died or been declared legally incompetent.
    * NB There are 2 &#167; 9-i's


::: 9-i:closeout_fees_prohibited_in_certain_cases.html
 
    * &#167; 9-i.  Close-out  fees  prohibited  in  certain  cases.  No banking
  institution, as that term is defined in section nine-f of this  chapter,
  shall  charge  its  customers a fee for the withdrawal of all funds from
  any account resulting in the closing of such account provided that  such
  account  was  opened  for  a  period  of  at  least  one  hundred eighty
  consecutive days prior to its closing.
    * NB There are 2 &#167; 9-i's


::: 9-j:disposal_of_records_customer_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 9-j.  Disposal  of  records;  customer  accounts.  1.  Every banking
  institution, which for purposes of this  section  means  a  bank,  trust
  company,  savings  bank,  savings and loan association, licensed foreign
  banks and credit unions, with  respect  to  written  records  no  longer
  required  or needed to be retained which contain information relating to
  an identified customer or an identified customer's  depository  or  loan
  account,  shall  in  disposing  of  such  records provide procedures and
  processes reasonably calculated to assure destruction or disposal  in  a
  manner  which  prevents  subsequent  unauthorized review or reuse of the
  record.
    2. The superintendent shall enforce the provisions of this section  by
  appropriate rules, regulations and orders.


::: 9-k:sale_of_education_loans.html
 
    &#167; 9-k.  Sale  of  education loans. 1. "Banking institution" as used in
  this section shall mean and include all banks, trust companies,  savings
  banks,  savings and loan associations, credit unions and foreign banking
  corporations whether  incorporated,  chartered,  organized  or  licensed
  under the laws of this state or any other state or the United States.
    2. "Lender" as used in this section shall mean and include:
    (a)  a  national or state chartered bank, mutual savings bank, savings
  and loan association, or credit union that:
    (1) is subject to examination and supervision in  its  capacity  as  a
  lender  by  an  agency of the United States or of the state in which its
  principal place of operation is established; and
    (2) does not  make  or  hold  loans  to  students  under  the  federal
  guaranteed  student  loan  program  that total more than one-half of its
  consumer credit loan dollar volume, including home mortgages, unless  it
  is a bank that is wholly owned by a state; or
    (b)  a  pension  fund  as  defined in the federal employees retirement
  income security act; or
    (c)  an  insurance  company  that  is  subject  to   examination   and
  supervision by an agency of the United States or a state; or
    (d)  in  any  state,  a single agency of the state or a single private
  nonprofit agency designated by the state; or
    (e) for purposes only of purchasing and holding loans  made  by  other
  lenders  under  the federal guaranteed student loan program, the student
  loan marketing association or an agency of any state  functioning  as  a
  secondary market.
    3.  "Guaranteed education loan" as used in this section shall mean and
  include any loan made for the  purpose  of  financing  higher  education
  which  is  made  under the authority of Part B of Title IV of the Higher
  Education Act of 1965 as amended or under the authority of  section  six
  hundred eighty of the education law.
    4.  Whenever  a  banking  institution or other eligible lender as such
  terms are defined in this section sells a guaranteed education  loan  to
  another banking institution or eligible lender, such selling institution
  shall  notify  the borrower in writing within fifteen days of such sale.
  Such notice shall include the name and address of the institution  which
  has  purchased  such loan. The selling institution shall also notify the
  New York state higher education services corporation or other  guarantor
  of such sale.  Notice shall include:
    (a)  the  name  and address of the institution which has purchased the
  loan; and
    (b) the name, address and social security number of the  borrower  and
  the borrower's account number.


::: 9-m:return_of_checks.html
 
    &#167; 9-m.  Return  of  checks.  Any  banking  institution as that term is
  defined in section nine-f of this chapter, except a  credit  union,  and
  any  other financial institution which offers consumer accounts, meaning
  accounts established by natural persons primarily for  personal,  family
  or  household purposes, which can be accessed by check, negotiable order
  of withdrawal, or  other  similar  written  instrument,  shall  offer  a
  consumer  account  on  which  the cancelled checks, negotiable orders of
  withdrawal, or other similar  instruments  drawn  on  that  account  are
  returned to the customer with a periodic statement of the account.


::: 9-n:trust_accounts_address_of_beneficiary.html
 
    &#167; 9-n.  Trust  accounts;  address  of  beneficiary.  1.  Every banking
  institution, which for the purposes of this section means a bank,  trust
  company,  savings  bank,  savings and loan association, licensed foreign
  bank or credit union, which shall hold accounts by  depositors  in  such
  depositor's   own  name  and,  further,  in  trust  for  a  third  party
  beneficiary or beneficiaries, shall make a written record of the address
  of any such beneficiary or beneficiaries at the time a trust account  is
  established.
    2.  The superintendent shall enforce the provisions of this section by
  appropriate rules, regulations and orders.


::: 9-o:mortgage_loans_disclosure_form.html
 
    &#167; 9-o.  Mortgage  loans;  disclosure  form. 1. For the purpose of this
  section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
    (a) "Mortgage lending institution" shall mean  an  insurance  company,
  banking  organization,  foreign  banking  corporation  licensed  by  the
  superintendent or the comptroller of the currency, to transact  business
  in  this state, national bank, federal savings bank, federal savings and
  loan association, federal credit union,  or  any  bank,  trust  company,
  savings  bank,  savings  and loan association, or credit union organized
  under the laws of any other state, or any instrumentality created by the
  United States or any other state, with the power to make mortgage loans.
  Mortgage lending institution shall include a subsidiary of such entity.
    (b) "Mortgage banker" shall mean a person or entity who  or  which  is
  licensed  pursuant to section five hundred ninety-one of this chapter to
  make mortgage loans in this state.
    2. Every  mortgage  lending  institution  and  mortgage  banker  which
  originates  loans secured by real property used for residential purposes
  located in this state shall provide a separate disclosure form with each
  application that shall contain a provision stating whether the  interest
  rate  of  such  loan shall be the interest rate in effect at the time of
  application, the time of commitment, the time  of  closing  or  at  such
  other  period of time as shall be determined by the lending institution.
  The superintendent of financial  services  shall  promulgate  rules  and
  regulations to implement the provisions of this section.


::: 9-p:acceptance_of_certain_checks_for_deposit.html
 
    &#167; 9-p.   Acceptance   of   certain  checks  for  deposit.  No  banking
  institution as that term is defined in section nine-f  of  this  chapter
  shall,  as  a  policy or general practice, refuse to accept as a deposit
  made with a teller by an account holder a check for the sole reason that
  it contains two endorsements. Nothing contained herein shall  prevent  a
  banking institution from requiring the approval of an officer or manager
  as a condition of accepting a check with two endorsements for deposit or
  from  refusing to accept a deposit of a check with two endorsements that
  is not made with a teller.


::: 9-r:geographic_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 9-r. Geographic restrictions. 1. No banking institution shall have a
  policy  or general practice of refusing to open a deposit account solely
  on the basis of the geographic location of the depositor's residence  or
  place  of  business;  provided  that  the  banking  office  at which the
  depositor seeks to open the account is within the county or, in the case
  of a county wholly contained within a  city,  the  city  in  which  such
  residence or place of business is located. For purposes of this section,
  "banking  institution"  means  any  bank,  trust  company, savings bank,
  savings and loan association, or branch of a foreign banking corporation
  the deposits of which are  insured  by  the  federal  deposit  insurance
  corporation,  which  is  incorporated,  chartered, organized or licensed
  under the laws of this state or any other state or the United States.
    2. Nothing herein contained shall prevent a banking  institution  from
  requiring  any person applying for a deposit account to demonstrate that
  the residence or place of business of such person is located within  the
  same  county  or  city,  or  prevent  a  banking institution from taking
  actions  necessary  to  verify  such  person's  residence  or  place  of
  business, so as to avoid being considered in violation of any law of the
  United  States  or of this state which has as its purpose the prevention
  of money laundering or other criminal  or  fraudulent  acts,  including,
  without limitation, 12 USC &#167; 1829b (Bank Secrecy); 18 USC &#167; 1341 (Frauds
  and Swindles); 18 USC &#167; 1342 (Fictitious Name or Address); 18 USC &#167; 2113
  (Bank  Robbery  and  Incidental  Crimes);  31  USC &#167; 5311 through &#167; 5326
  (Records and Reports on Monetary Instruments Transactions).


::: 9-s:preauthorized_electronic_fund_transfers.html
 
    &#167;  9-s.  Preauthorized  electronic  fund  transfers.  1. Every banking
  institution which provides preauthorized electronic fund transfers  from
  consumer  accounts  shall, in accordance with regulations adopted by the
  superintendent of financial services, provide consumers with  the  right
  to  stop  payment  by  giving  written or oral notice within a specified
  period of time prior to such transfer. For  purposes  of  this  section,
  "banking  institution" shall mean any state or federally chartered bank,
  trust company, savings bank, savings  and  loan  association  or  credit
  union,  and  "consumer account" shall mean an account used primarily for
  personal, family or household purposes.
    2. No agreement for preauthorized electronic  fund  transfers  entered
  into  on  or  after January first, two thousand thirteen shall permit or
  require the transfer from a consumer account of any funds as  a  penalty
  or  a  final payment after the consumer has given written or oral notice
  to stop payment to his or her financial institution.
    3. Any banking  institution  which  complies  with  the  stop  payment
  provisions of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, as such act may
  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and any regulations adopted pursuant
  thereto, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of this
  section.


::: 9-t:unsolicited_mailloan_checks.html
 
    &#167;  9-t. Unsolicited mail-loan checks. 1. For purposes of this section,
  the following terms shall have the following meanings:
    (a) "lending institution" shall mean a licensed lender or a  state  or
  federally  chartered bank, trust company, savings bank, savings and loan
  association or credit union.
    (b) "mail-loan check" shall mean a check, made out to and mailed to  a
  person by a lending institution, which, when cashed or deposited by such
  person,  obligates  such person to repay to such lending institution the
  amount of the proceeds of such check according to terms mailed  to  such
  recipient with such check.
    2. Any lending institution which issues mail-loan checks shall:
    (a)  include  on  the  face  of  each check issued to a non-customer a
  written  statement,  in  legible  type  reading  "ONE  FORM   OF   VALID
  PHOTOGRAPHIC  ID NEEDED TO CASH OR DEPOSIT"; provided, however, that any
  entity cashing or accepting a mail-loan check for  deposit  may  require
  more than one form of identification;
    (b)  make  no  reference  on  the outside of the envelope containing a
  mail-loan check that indicates that a  check  is  enclosed  within  such
  envelope;
    (c) provide that all mail-loan checks shall be non-transferable; and
    (d)  include  an  expiration  date  of not more than six months on the
  mail-loan check.
    3. Any lending institution which mails a mail-loan check in  violation
  of  the  provisions  of this section shall be liable for a civil penalty
  not to exceed five hundred dollars for each such violation.


::: 9-u:atm_transactions_by_persons_using_foreign_bank_accounts.html
 
    &#167;  9-u.  ATM  transactions  by persons using foreign bank accounts. 1.
  Subject to the requirements of section three  hundred  ninety-nine-y  of
  the  general  business law, as added by chapter four hundred ninety-five
  of the laws of nineteen hundred ninety-nine, an agreement to operate  or
  share  an  automated  teller  machine  shall  not  have  the  effect  of
  prohibiting, limiting or restricting the right of the operator or  owner
  of the automated teller machine to charge a customer who is conducting a
  transaction  using  an  account  from  a  financial  institution that is
  located outside the  United  States  an  access  fee  or  surcharge  not
  otherwise prohibited under state or federal law.
    2. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or otherwise
  limit the ability of an operator or owner of an automated teller machine
  to  voluntarily  enter  into  an  agreement regarding participation in a
  surcharge free network.


::: 9001-a:fingerprints.html
 
    &#167; 9001-a.  Fingerprints.    (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of
  law, every incorporator of a corporation shall, in addition to any other
  requirements  which  may  be  imposed  by  the  superintendent,   submit
  simultaneously with an application, his or her fingerprints in such form
  and  in  such  manner  as  specified by the division of criminal justice
  services, but in any  event,  no  less  than  two  digit  imprints.  The
  superintendent shall submit the fingerprints to the division of criminal
  justice services for the purpose of conducting a criminal history search
  and  returning  a  report  thereon in accordance with the procedures and
  requirements established by the division pursuant to the  provisions  of
  article  thirty-five  of  the  executive  law,  which  shall include the
  payment of the prescribed  processing  fees.  The  superintendent  shall
  request that the division submit such fingerprints to the federal bureau
  of  investigation,  together with the processing fees prescribed by such
  bureau, for the purpose of conducting  a  criminal  history  search  and
  returning a report thereon.
    (b) The superintendent shall also, concurrent with an investigation of
  an  incorporator  of  a  corporation  pertaining  to a violation of this
  chapter, submit such fingerprints to the division  of  criminal  justice
  services  for  the  purpose  of conducting a criminal history search and
  returning a report thereon and  through  the  division  to  the  federal
  bureau  of  investigation for the purpose of a fingerprint check of such
  incorporator.
    (c) For purposes of  this  section,  "incorporator"  shall  include  a
  natural   person  or  such  principal,  officer,  director,  trustee  or
  stockholder  of  any  other  entity  as  may  be   designated   by   the
  superintendent.    Notwithstanding  any other provision of this article,
  the  superintendent  shall  not  access   criminal   history   data   or
  information,  unless  any  agency from which the superintendent receives
  directly criminal history data or information has entered into a use and
  dissemination agreement with  the  superintendent  consistent  with  the
  provisions of this section.
    (d)  An  applicant  shall  not  be  required  to  submit  his  or  her
  fingerprints as required by subdivision (a)  of  this  section  if  such
  applicant (i) is already subject to regulation by the department and the
  applicant  has  submitted  such  fingerprints  to  the  department, such
  fingerprints have been submitted to the  division  of  criminal  justice
  services  for the purpose of conducting a criminal history search, and a
  report of such search has been received  by  the  department  from  such
  division;  or (ii) is subject to regulation by a federal bank regulatory
  agency and has submitted such fingerprints to such agency which has  had
  a  criminal  history  search conducted of such individual and has shared
  such information or its determination resulting from  such  search  with
  the  department;  or (iii) is an officer or stockholder of a corporation
  whose common or preferred stock is registered on a  national  securities
  exchange,  as  provided  in  an  act  of  congress  of the United States
  entitled the "Securities Exchange Act of  1934",  approved  June  sixth,
  nineteen  hundred  thirty-four,  as  amended,  or such other exchange or
  market system as the superintendent shall approve by regulation, and has
  submitted such fingerprints to such exchange or market system which  has
  had  a  criminal  history  search  conducted  of such individual and has
  shared such information or its determination resulting from such  search
  with  the  department;  provided,  however,  that the superintendent may
  subsequently require such applicant to submit such fingerprints  if  the
  superintendent  has  a  reasonable basis for updating the information or
  determination resulting from the report of the criminal  history  search
  conducted  at  the  request  of such federal banking agency, exchange or
  market system.


::: 9001:definitions.html
 
    &#167; 9001.  Definitions.  In  this  article, unless the context otherwise
  requires:
    1. "Corporation" means and includes all mutual savings  banks,  mutual
  savings  and  loan  associations,  mutual  holding  companies and credit
  unions.
    2.  "Director"  means  any  member  of  the  governing  board   of   a
  corporation,  whether designated as director, trustee, manager, governor
  or by any other title; the term "board" means "board of directors. "
    3. "Organization certificate" includes (a) the  original  organization
  certificate or any other instrument filed or issued under any statute to
  form  a  corporation or foreign corporation, as amended, supplemented or
  restated by certificates of amendment, merger or consolidation or  other
  certificates  or instruments filed or issued under any statute; or (b) a
  special act or charter creating a corporation or foreign corporation, as
  amended, supplemented or restated by special acts or by certificates  of
  amendment,  merger or consolidation or other certificates or instruments
  filed or issued under any statute.
    4. "Foreign  corporation"  means  a  non-stock  corporation  which  is
  licensed  by  the  superintendent under the provisions of article two of
  this chapter to do business in  this  state  or  is  applying  for  such
  license  and  a  non-stock corporation authorized to conduct business in
  this state pursuant to article five-C of this chapter or is applying for
  such authorization.


::: 9002:application.html
 
    &#167; 9002.  Application.  1. To the extent not inconsistent with articles
  six, ten, ten-B and eleven, this article applies  to  every  corporation
  and, to the extent herein provided, to every foreign corporation.
    2.  The business corporation law shall not apply to any corporation or
  foreign corporation as defined in section  nine  thousand  one  of  this
  article.


::: 9003:certificates_requirements_signing_filing_effectiveness.html
 
    &#167; 9003. Certificates; requirements, signing, filing, effectiveness. 1.
  Every  certificate  or  other  instrument relating to a corporation or a
  foreign corporation which is delivered to the superintendent for  filing
  under  this  chapter  shall  be in the English language, except that the
  corporate name may be in another language if written in English  letters
  or characters.
    2.  Whenever  such  instrument is required to set forth an address, it
  shall include the street and number,  or  other  particular  description
  instead  of a street and number. This requirement does not apply where a
  post office address is specified to be set forth.
    3. Whenever such instrument is required to set forth the date when  an
  organization  certificate  was filed by the superintendent, the original
  organization certificate is meant.
    4. Every such instrument required under this chapter to be signed  and
  delivered  to  the  superintendent,  except as otherwise provided in the
  section providing for such instrument, shall be signed either (a) by the
  holders of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon,  or  (b)  by
  the  chairman  of  the board, the president or vice president and by the
  secretary or an assistant secretary or, in the  case  of  a  corporation
  which  does  not  have  a  secretary  or  an assistant secretary, by the
  cashier or an assistant cashier, or (c) if there are no  such  officers,
  by  a  majority  of the directors or such directors as are designated by
  the majority of the directors in office, or (d) if  also  there  are  no
  directors,  by  the  holders,  or  such of them as are designated by the
  holders of record of a majority of all outstanding  shares  entitled  to
  vote  thereon,  or  (e)  if also there is no shareholder of record, by a
  subscriber for shares  whose  subscription  has  been  accepted  or  his
  successor  in  interest,  or  (f) if also no subscription for shares has
  been accepted, by an incorporator. His name and the  capacity  in  which
  any person signs such instrument shall be stated beneath or opposite his
  signature.  The  person  signing  such  instrument, or, if more than one
  person signs it, one of such persons shall  verify  or  acknowledge  the
  instrument if required by the section providing for such instrument.
    5.  No  such  instrument  shall be filed unless it shall have endorsed
  thereon  the  approval  of  the  superintendent.   No   certificate   of
  authentication  or  conformity  or  other  proof  shall be required with
  respect to any verification, oath or acknowledgment  of  any  instrument
  delivered   to   the   superintendent   under   this  chapter,  if  such
  verification, oath or acknowledgment purports to have been made before a
  notary public, or person performing the equivalent function, of  one  of
  the  states,  or  any  subdivision  thereof, of the United States or the
  District of Columbia.
    6. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, such instrument shall
  become effective upon the filing thereof by the superintendent.


::: 9004:certificates_corrections.html
 
    &#167; 9004. Certificates; corrections. Any certificate or other instrument
  relating to a corporation filed by the superintendent under this chapter
  may  be  corrected  with respect to any informality or error apparent on
  the face or defect in the execution thereof, including the  deletion  of
  any material not permitted to be stated therein. A certificate, entitled
  " Certificate of correction of ........... (correct title of certificate
  and  name of corporation) " shall be signed, verified or acknowledged as
  provided in this chapter with respect to the instrument being  corrected
  and  delivered to the superintendent. It shall set forth the name of the
  corporation or foreign  corporation,  the  date  the  instrument  to  be
  corrected  was  filed  by  the  superintendent,  the  provision  in  the
  instrument  as  corrected  or  eliminated  and  if  the  execution   was
  defective,  the  proper  execution. The filing of the certificate by the
  superintendent shall not alter the  effective  time  of  the  instrument
  being  corrected, which shall remain as its original effective date, and
  shall not affect any right or liability accrued or incurred before  such
  filing.  The  name  of the corporation or foreign corporation may not be
  changed or corrected under this section.


::: 9005:nonexclusivity_of_statutory_provisions_for_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 9005.  Nonexclusivity of statutory provisions for indemnification of
  directors and officers.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses
  granted  pursuant  to,  or provided by, this article shall not be deemed
  exclusive of any other rights to which a  director  or  officer  seeking
  indemnification  or  advancement  of  expenses  may be entitled, whether
  contained in the  organization  certificate  or  the  by-laws  or,  when
  authorized  by  such  certificate  of  incorporation  or  by-laws, (i) a
  resolution of shareholders, (ii) a resolution of directors, or (iii)  an
  agreement   providing   for   such  indemnification,  provided  that  no
  indemnification may be made to or on behalf of any director  or  officer
  if  a  judgment  or  other final adjudication adverse to the director or
  officer establishes that his acts were committed in bad  faith  or  were
  the  result of active and deliberate dishonesty and were material to the
  cause of action so adjudicated, or that he personally gained in  fact  a
  financial  profit  or  other  advantage  to  which  he  was  not legally
  entitled.  Nothing contained in this article shall affect any rights  to
  indemnification  to  which  corporate personnel other than directors and
  officers may be entitled by contract or otherwise under law.


::: 9006:authorization_for_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 9006.  Authorization  for indemnification of directors and officers.
  1. A corporation may indemnify any person, made,  or  threatened  to  be
  made,  a  party  to an action or proceeding (other than one by or in the
  right of the corporation to procure a judgment in  its  favor),  whether
  civil  or  criminal, including an action by or in the right of any other
  corporation of any type or kind, whether or not formed under any law  of
  this  state,  or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit
  plan  or  other  enterprise,  which  any  director  or  officer  of  the
  corporation served in any capacity at the request of the corporation, by
  reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, was a director or
  officer   of   the   corporation,  or  served  such  other  corporation,
  partnership, joint  venture,  trust,  employee  benefit  plan  or  other
  enterprise  in  any  capacity, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in
  settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys'  fees  actually
  and  necessarily  incurred  as a result of such action or proceeding, or
  any appeal therein, if such director or officer acted,  in  good  faith,
  for  a purpose which he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case of
  service for any other corporation or  any  partnership,  joint  venture,
  trust,  employee  benefit  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to, the
  best  interests  of  the  corporation  and,  in  criminal   actions   or
  proceedings,  in  addition,  had no reasonable cause to believe that his
  conduct was unlawful.
    2. The termination of any such civil or criminal action or  proceeding
  by  judgment,  settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere,
  or its equivalent, shall not in itself create  a  presumption  that  any
  such director or officer did not act, in good faith, for a purpose which
  he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case of service to any other
  corporation  or  any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit
  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to,  the  best  interests  of  the
  corporation  or that he had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct
  was unlawful.
    3. A corporation may indemnify any person made, or  threatened  to  be
  made,  a  party  to  an  action by or in the right of the corporation to
  procure a judgment in its favor by reason  of  the  fact  that  he,  his
  testator  or  intestate,  is  or  was  a  director  or  officer  of  the
  corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
  director or officer of any  other  corporation  of  any  type  or  kind,
  whether  or  not formed under any law of this state, of any partnership,
  joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against
  amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys'
  fees, actually and necessarily incurred by him in  connection  with  the
  defense  or  settlement  of such action, or in connection with an appeal
  therein, if such director or officer acted, in good faith, for a purpose
  which he reasonably believed to be in, or, in the case  of  service  for
  any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
  benefit  plan or other enterprise, not opposed to, the best interests of
  the corporation, except that no indemnification under  this  subdivision
  shall be made in respect of (a) a threatened action, or a pending action
  which  is  settled  or otherwise disposed of, or (b) any claim, issue or
  matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable  to
  the  corporation,  unless and only to the extent that the court in which
  the action was brought, or, if no  action  was  brought,  any  court  of
  competent jurisdiction, determines upon application that, in view of all
  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  the  person is fairly and reasonably
  entitled to indemnity for such portion  of  the  settlement  amount  and
  expenses as the court deems proper.
    4.  For  the purpose of this section, a corporation shall be deemed to
  have requested a person to serve an  employee  benefit  plan  where  the
  performance by such person of his duties to the corporation also imposes
  duties on, or otherwise involves services by, such person to the plan or
  participants  or  beneficiaries  of the plan; excise taxes assessed on a
  person  with  respect to an employee benefit plan pursuant to applicable
  law shall be considered fines; and action taken or omitted by  a  person
  with  respect  to  an  employee  benefit plan in the performance of such
  person's duties for a purpose reasonably believed by such person  to  be
  in  the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan shall
  be deemed to be for a purpose which is not opposed to the best interests
  of the corporation.


::: 9007:payment_of_indemnification_other_than_by_court_award.html
 
    &#167; 9007.  Payment  of  indemnification other than by court award. 1.  A
  person who has been successful, on  the  merits  or  otherwise,  in  the
  defense  of  a  civil  or criminal action or proceeding of the character
  described  in  section  nine  thousand  six   shall   be   entitled   to
  indemnification as authorized in such section.
    2.  Except  as  provided in subdivision one, any indemnification under
  section nine  thousand  six  or  otherwise  permitted  by  section  nine
  thousand  five,  unless  ordered  by a court under section nine thousand
  eight, shall be made by the  corporation,  only  if  authorized  in  the
  specific case:
    (a)  By  the  board acting by a quorum consisting of directors who are
  not parties to such  action  or  proceeding  upon  a  finding  that  the
  director or officer has met the standard of conduct set forth in section
  nine thousand six or established pursuant to section nine thousand five,
  as the case may be, or,
    (b)  If  a  quorum  under  paragraph (a) is not obtainable or, even if
  obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs:
    (1) By the board upon the opinion  in  writing  of  independent  legal
  counsel  that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because the
  applicable standard of conduct set forth in such sections has  been  met
  by such director or officer, or
    (2)  By  the  shareholders upon a finding that the director or officer
  has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in such sections.
    3. Expenses incurred in  defending  a  civil  or  criminal  action  or
  proceeding  may  be  paid  by  the  corporation  in advance of the final
  disposition of such action or proceeding upon receipt of an  undertaking
  by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount as, and
  to  the  extent,  required  by  subdivision one of section nine thousand
  nine.


::: 9008:indemnification_of_directors_and_officers_by_a_court.html
 
    &#167; 9008.  Indemnification  of  directors  and  officers  by a court. 1.
  Notwithstanding the failure of a corporation to provide indemnification,
  and despite any contrary resolution of the board or of the  shareholders
  in  the specific case under section nine thousand seven, indemnification
  shall be awarded by a court to the extent authorized under section  nine
  thousand  six  and  subdivision  one  of  section  nine  thousand seven.
  Application therefor may be made, in every case, either:
    (a) In the civil action or  proceeding  in  which  the  expenses  were
  incurred or other amounts were paid, or
    (b)  To  the supreme court in a separate proceeding, in which case the
  application shall set forth the disposition of any previous  application
  made  to  any  court  for the same or similar relief and also reasonable
  cause for the failure to make application for such relief in the  action
  or  proceeding in which the expenses were incurred or other amounts were
  paid.
    2. The application shall be made in such manner and  form  as  may  be
  required by the applicable rules of court, or in the absence thereof, by
  direction of a court to which it is made. Such application shall be upon
  notice  to  the  corporation.  The  court may also direct that notice be
  given at the expense of the corporation to  the  shareholders  and  such
  other persons as it may designate in such manner as it may require.
    3.  Where  indemnification is sought by judicial action, the court may
  allow a person such  reasonable  expenses,  including  attorneys'  fees,
  during  the  pendency  of  the litigation as are necessary in connection
  with his defense therein, if the court shall find that the defendant has
  by his pleadings or during the course of the litigation  raised  genuine
  issues of fact or law.


::: 9009:other_provisions_affecting_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 9009.  Other  provisions  affecting indemnification of directors and
  officers. 1. All expenses incurred in  defending  a  civil  or  criminal
  action  or  proceeding  which  are  advanced  by  the  corporation under
  subdivision three of section nine thousand seven or allowed by  a  court
  under  subdivision  three of section nine thousand eight shall be repaid
  in case the person receiving such advancement or allowance is ultimately
  found, under the procedure set forth in this article, not to be entitled
  to indemnification or, where indemnification is granted, to  the  extent
  the  expenses  so  advanced  by  the corporation or allowed by the court
  exceed the indemnification to which he is entitled.
    2. No indemnification, advancement or allowance shall  be  made  under
  this article in any circumstance where it appears:
    (a) That the indemnification would be inconsistent with a provision of
  the  organization certificate, a by-law, a resolution of the board or of
  the shareholders, an agreement or  other  proper  corporate  action,  in
  effect  at  the  time  of  the  accrual  of  the alleged cause of action
  asserted in the threatened or pending action or proceeding in which  the
  expenses  were  incurred  or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or
  otherwise limits indemnification; or
    (b) If there has been a settlement approved by  the  court,  that  the
  indemnification would be inconsistent with any condition with respect to
  indemnification   expressly  imposed  by  the  court  in  approving  the
  settlement.
    3.  If  any  expenses  or  other  amounts   are   paid   by   way   of
  indemnification,  otherwise  than  by  court  order  or  action  by  the
  shareholders, the corporation shall, not  later  than  the  next  annual
  meeting  of shareholders unless such meeting is held within three months
  from the date of such payment, and, in any event, within fifteen  months
  from the date of such payment, mail to its shareholders of record at the
  time  entitled  to  vote  for  the  election  of  directors  a statement
  specifying the persons paid, the amounts paid, and the nature and status
  at the time of such payment of the litigation or threatened litigation.
    4. If any action with respect  to  indemnification  of  directors  and
  officers  is  taken  by  way  of amendment of the by-laws, resolution of
  directors, or by agreement, then the corporation shall, not  later  than
  the  next  annual  meeting  of shareholders, unless such meeting is held
  within three months from the date of  such  action  and,  in  any  event
  within  fifteen  months  from  the  date  of  such  action,  mail to its
  shareholders of record at the time entitled to vote for the election  of
  directors a statement specifying the action taken.
    5.  No payment of indemnification, advancement or allowance under this
  article  shall  be  made  unless  a  notice  has  been  filed  with  the
  superintendent,  not  less  than  thirty  days  prior  to  such payment,
  specifying the persons to be paid, the amounts to be paid, the manner in
  which such payment was authorized, and the nature and status at the time
  of the notice of the litigation or threatened litigation.


::: 9010-a:insurance_for_indemnification_of_directors_and_officers.html
 
    &#167; 9010-a.  Insurance for indemnification of directors and officers. 1.
  Subject to  the  provisions  of  subdivision  two  of  this  section,  a
  corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance:
    (a) To indemnify the corporation for any obligation which it incurs as
  a  result  of  the  indemnification  of directors and officers under the
  provisions of this article, and
    (b) To indemnify directors and officers in instances in which they may
  be indemnified by the corporation under the provisions of this  article,
  and
    (c) To indemnify directors and officers in instances in which they may
  not  otherwise be indemnified by the corporation under the provisions of
  this article provided the contract of insurance covering such  directors
  and  officers  provides, in a manner acceptable to the superintendent of
  financial services, for a retention amount and for co-insurance.
    2. No insurance under subdivision one of this section may provide  for
  any payment, other than cost of defense, to or on behalf of any director
  or officer:
    (a)  If  a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to the insured
  director or officer establishes that his acts of active  and  deliberate
  dishonesty  were material to the cause of action so adjudicated, or that
  he personally gained in fact a financial profit or  other  advantage  to
  which he was not legally entitled, or
    (b) In relation to any risk the insurance of which is prohibited under
  the insurance law of this state.
    3.  Insurance  under  any or all paragraphs of subdivision one of this
  section may be included in a  single  contract  or  supplement  thereto.
  Retrospective rated contracts are prohibited.
    4.  The corporation shall, within the time and to the persons provided
  in subdivision three of section nine thousand nine of this article, mail
  a statement in respect of any insurance  it  has  purchased  or  renewed
  under  this  section,  specifying  the  insurance  carrier,  date of the
  contract, cost of the insurance,  corporate  positions  insured,  and  a
  statement explaining all sums, not previously reported in a statement to
  shareholders, paid under any indemnification insurance contract.
    5.  This section is the public policy of this state to spread the risk
  of corporate management, notwithstanding any other  general  or  special
  law  of  this  state  or of any other jurisdiction including the federal
  government.


::: 9011:certificates_as_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 9011.   Certificates  as  evidence.  1.  Any  certificate  or  other
  instrument filed by the superintendent  relating  to  a  corporation  or
  foreign  corporation  and  containing  statements  of  fact, required or
  permitted by law to be contained  therein,  shall  be  received  in  all
  courts,  public  offices  and official bodies as prima facie evidence of
  such facts and of the execution of such instrument.
    2. Whenever by the laws of any jurisdiction other than this state, any
  certificate by any officer  in  such  jurisdiction  or  a  copy  of  any
  instruments certified or exemplified by such officer, may be received as
  prima  facie evidence of the incorporation, existence or capacity of any
  foreign corporation incorporated in such jurisdiction, or claiming so to
  be, such certificate when exemplified shall be received in  all  courts,
  public  offices  and  official  bodies  of  this  state,  as prima facie
  evidence with the same force as in such jurisdiction.  Such  certificate
  or certified copy of such instrument shall be so received, without being
  exemplified,  if  it  is certified by the secretary of state, or officer
  performing the equivalent functions, as to  corporate  records  of  such
  jurisdiction.


::: 9012:corporate_seal_as_evidence.html
 
    &#167; 9012. Corporate seal as evidence. The presence of the corporate seal
  on  a  written  instrument  purporting  to be executed by authority of a
  corporation or a foreign corporation shall be prima facie evidence  that
  the instrument was so executed.


::: 9013:when_notice_or_lapse_of_time_unnecessary_notices_dispensed_with_when_delivery_is_prohibited.html
 
    &#167; 9013.  When  notice  or lapse of time unnecessary; notices dispensed
  with when delivery is prohibited. 1. Whenever, under articles six,  ten,
  ten-B  and  eleven,  the  organization  certificate  and  by-laws of any
  corporation  or  by  the  terms  of  any  agreement  or  instrument,   a
  corporation  or the board or any committee thereof is authorized to take
  any action after notice to any person or persons or after the lapse of a
  prescribed period of time, such action may be taken without  notice  and
  without the lapse of such period of time, if at any time before or after
  such  action  is completed the person or persons entitled to such notice
  or entitled to participate in the action to be taken or, in the case  of
  a shareholder, by his attorney-in-fact, submit a signed waiver of notice
  of such requirements.
    2. Whenever any notice or communication is required to be given to any
  person   or  persons  by  articles  six,  ten,  ten-B  and  eleven,  the
  organization certificate and by-laws, or by the terms of  any  agreement
  or  instrument,  or  as  a  condition  precedent to taking any corporate
  action and communication with such person or persons  is  then  unlawful
  under  any  statute  of  this  state  or  of  the  United  States or any
  regulation, proclamation or order issued under such statutes,  then  the
  giving  of  such notice or communication to such person or persons shall
  not be required and there shall be no duty to apply  for  a  license  or
  other   permission  to  do  so.  Any  affidavit,  certificate  or  other
  instrument which is required to be made or filed as proof of  giving  of
  any  notice or communication required under articles six, ten and eleven
  shall, if such notice or communication to any person is  dispensed  with
  under  this  subdivision,  include  a  statement  that  such  notice  or
  communication was not given to any person  with  whom  communication  is
  unlawful.  Such  affidavit,  certificate or other instrument shall be as
  effective for all purposes as though such notice  or  communication  had
  been personally given to such person.


::: 9014:corporate_name_general.html
 
    &#167; 9014.  Corporate name; general. Except as otherwise provided in this
  chapter, the name of a corporation or a foreign corporation shall not be
  the same as the name of a corporation of any type or kind, as such  name
  appears  on  the  index of names of existing corporations of any type or
  kind in the department of financial services or a  name  so  similar  to
  such name as to tend to confuse or deceive.


::: 9015:corporate_name_exceptions.html
 
    &#167; 9015.  Corporate name; exceptions. 1. Any reference to a corporation
  in  this  section  shall   include   both   corporations   and   foreign
  corporations.
    2. The provisions of section nine thousand fourteen:
    (a)  Shall  not  require  any corporation existing or recognized under
  this chapter on the effective date of this article, to add to, modify or
  otherwise change its corporate name.
    (b) Shall not prevent a corporation with which another corporation  is
  merged  or which is formed by the reorganization or consolidation of one
  or more other corporations or upon a  sale,  lease,  exchange  or  other
  disposition  of  all  or  substantially  all  of  the  assets of another
  corporation, including its name, from having the same  name  as  any  of
  such  corporations if at the time such other corporation was licensed or
  existing under this chapter.


::: 9016:change_of_name.html
 
    &#167; 9016.  Change of name. By resolution adopted by a vote of two-thirds
  of all its directors, at a meeting held for the purpose,  a  corporation
  may  change  its  corporate name, but such change shall not be effective
  unless it shall  have  been  approved  by  the  superintendent.  If  the
  superintendent  shall  approve,  he  shall issue, under his hand and the
  official  seal  of  the  department,  in   triplicate,   a   certificate
  authorizing  such  change  of  name to become effective, and stating the
  time at which such change shall  become  effective,  which  certificates
  shall  be  transmitted  and  filed  in  the same manner as authorization
  certificates.


::: 9017:place_and_time_of_meetings_of_the_board_presence_at.html
 
    &#167; 9017.  Place  and  time  of  meetings  of the board; presence at. 1.
  Meetings of the board, regular or special, may  be  held  at  any  place
  within   or  without  this  state,  unless  otherwise  provided  in  the
  organization certificate or the by-laws.
    2. Subject to articles six, ten, ten-B and eleven of this chapter, the
  time and place for holding meetings of the board  may  be  fixed  by  or
  under the by-laws, or, if not so fixed, by the board.
    3. When authorized by the organization certificate of incorporation or
  the  by-laws,  any  one  or  more  members of the board or any committee
  thereof may participate in a meeting of such board or committee by means
  of a conference telephone or similar communications  equipment  allowing
  all  persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same
  time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at
  a meeting.


::: 9018:effect_of_invalidity_of_part_of_article_severability.html
 
    &#167; 9018.  Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability. If any
  provision of this article  or  application  thereof  to  any  person  or
  circumstances  is  held  invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
  provisions or applications of this article which  can  be  given  effect
  without  the  invalid  provision  or  application,  and  to this end the
  provisions of this article are declared severable.


::: 9019:certain_provisions_relating_to_the_conversion_of_nonstock_savings_banks_and_savings_and_loan_associations_to_stock_form.html
 
    &#167; 9019.  Certain  provisions  relating  to the conversion of non-stock
  savings banks and savings and loan associations to stock form. No mutual
  savings bank and no mutual savings and loan association shall convert to
  stock form unless all depositors (in the case of such savings banks) and
  all shareholders (in the case of such savings and loan associations)  of
  any  such  converting  institution  whose  aggregate  deposit  or  share
  balance, as the case may be, (as shown on the books and records  of  the
  converting  institution)  equals  at  least  one hundred dollars as of a
  record date to be established in accordance with general regulations  of
  the   superintendent   of   financial  services  are  provided  with  an
  opportunity to approve such conversion, either in  person  or  by  valid
  proxy, at a meeting duly convened in accordance with general regulations
  of the superintendent of financial services for the purpose of approving
  or  disapproving  such  conversion.  At  such meeting, each depositor or
  shareholder shall be entitled to cast one vote for each full one hundred
  dollars of deposits or shares of such depositor or shareholder shown  on
  the  books  and  records of the converting institution as of such record
  date. A depositor or shareholder shall not be entitled to cast any votes
  for any deposit or share balances in amounts of less  than  one  hundred
  dollars.  No  such  conversion shall be effective unless approved by the
  affirmative vote of at least seventy-five per centum  of  the  aggregate
  dollar  amount  of the book value of deposits or shares, as the case may
  be, represented (either in person or by proxy)  at  such  duly  convened
  meeting and entitled to vote thereat.


::: 94:change_from_bank_to_trust_company_from_trust_company_to_bank.html
 
  &#167; 94. Change from bank to trust company; from trust company to bank.
    A bank complying with the minimum capital stock requirements specified
  in  subdivision  nine  of  section four thousand one of this chapter may
  become a trust company by filing a certificate pursuant  to  subdivision
  two  of  section  eight  thousand one of this chapter to provide that it
  shall have the powers specified in section one hundred of this  article.
  A  trust  company  may become a bank by filing a certificate pursuant to
  subdivision two of section eight thousand one of this chapter to provide
  that it shall not have the powers specified in section  one  hundred  of
  this  article.    Prior  to  or  simultaneously  with the filing of such
  certificate, such trust company shall if its  title  contains  the  term
  "trust  company"  file  a  certificate  pursuant  to  subdivision two of
  section eight thousand one of this chapter for the purpose  of  omitting
  such term from its title.


::: 96-a:servicing_of_mortgages_by_banks.html
 
    &#167; 96-a.  Servicing of mortgages by banks. 1. Every bank shall, subject
  to the restrictions and limitations contained in this article, have  the
  power  to service mortgages, and the superintendent shall have the power
  to prescribe, by specific or general regulation, the  extent  to  which,
  and the conditions upon which, mortgages may be serviced.
    2.  No  bank  shall,  by  virtue  of  the provisions contained in this
  section,  be  deemed  to  have  the  powers  defined  and  described  in
  subdivision two of section one hundred of this article.
    3.  The  grant of powers to banks by or pursuant to this section shall
  not be deemed to limit or  restrict  any  other  banking  organizations,
  heretofore  or  hereafter  organized,  in  the  exercise of their lawful
  powers.


::: 96-b:payroll_payment_by_banks_or_trust_companies.html
 
    &#167; 96-b.  Payroll  payment  by banks or trust companies. l.  Every bank
  and trust company shall have the power to enter into contracts with  any
  municipal  corporation,  school  district, district corporation, town or
  county improvement district, public authority, or public corporation  to
  receive  in  a single payment, for each pay period, the total payroll of
  such corporations, districts or authorities  and  deposit  the  same  in
  accordance  with  the  terms  of  such  contract,  which  shall  include
  provision for deposits for withholding,  retirement  and  insurance,  if
  any.
    2.  The  amount  due  each  employee shall be disbursed or credited in
  accordance with the directions of each employee to  saving  or  checking
  accounts, or loan or mortgage accounts within such bank or trust company
  or  to a single account in another bank or trust company or savings bank
  or savings and loan association or may be payable in cash or by check to
  such employee.


::: 96-c:power_to_act_as_trustee_under_selfemployed_retirement_trust_or_individual_retirement_trust.html
 
    &#167; 96-c.  Power  to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust
  or individual retirement trust. Every bank without fiduciary powers may,
  subject  to  any  regulations  and  restrictions   prescribed   by   the
  superintendent  of financial services, act as trustee under a retirement
  plan established pursuant to the  provisions  of  the  act  of  congress
  entitled  "Self-employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962" as such
  provisions may be amended from time to time,  and  under  an  individual
  retirement  account  plan  established pursuant to the amendments to the
  provisions of the Internal Revenue Code contained in the act of congress
  entitled "Employee Retirement Income  Security  Act  of  1974"  as  such
  provisions  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  provided  that  the
  provisions of such retirement  or  individual  retirement  account  plan
  require  the  funds of such trust to be invested exclusively in deposits
  in banks, trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan  associations
  or  federal  savings  and  loan associations whose principal offices are
  located in this  state.  In  the  event  that  any  such  retirement  or
  individual  retirement  account plan, which in the judgment of the bank,
  constituted a qualified plan under the provisions of the applicable  act
  of  congress  hereinabove  mentioned  and  the  regulations  promulgated
  thereunder at the time the trust was established  and  accepted  by  the
  bank  is  subsequently  determined  not  to  be such a qualified plan or
  subsequently ceases to be such a qualified plan, in whole  or  in  part,
  the  bank  may, nevertheless, continue to act as trustee of any deposits
  theretofore made  under  such  plan  and  to  dispose  of  the  same  in
  accordance  with  the  directions of the depositor and the beneficiaries
  thereof. No bank, in respect to deposits made under this section,  shall
  be required to segregate such deposits from other deposits of such bank,
  provided,  however, that the bank shall keep appropriate records showing
  in proper detail all transactions engaged in under the authority of this
  section.


::: 96-d:banking_development_districts.html
 
    &#167;  96-d. Banking development districts. 1. * There is hereby created a
  banking development  district  program,  the  purpose  of  which  is  to
  encourage  the  establishment  of  bank branches in geographic locations
  where  there  is  a  demonstrated  need  for   banking   services.   The
  superintendent  of  financial  services  shall, in consultation with the
  department of economic development, promulgate  rules  and  regulations,
  after  public  hearing and comment, which set forth the criteria for the
  establishment of banking  development  districts.  Such  criteria  shall
  include, but not be limited to, the following:
    * NB Effective until January 1, 2017
    * There  is hereby created a banking development district program, the
  purpose of which is to encourage the establishment  of  commercial  bank
  branches  in geographic locations where there is a demonstrated need for
  banking services. The superintendent of  financial  services  shall,  in
  consultation  with  the  department  of economic development, promulgate
  rules and regulations, after public hearing and comment, which set forth
  the criteria for the establishment  of  banking  development  districts.
  Such criteria shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
    * NB Effective January 1, 2017
    (a)  the  location,  number,  and  proximity  of  sites  where banking
  services are available within the district;
    (b) the identification of consumer needs for banking  services  within
  the district;
    (c)  the  economic  viability  and local credit needs of the community
  within the district;
    (d) the existing commercial development within the district;
    (e) the impact additional banking services  would  have  on  potential
  economic development in the district; and
    (f)  such  other  criteria  which  the  superintendent  in  his or her
  discretion shall identify as appropriate.
    2. A local government, in conjunction with a bank,  trust  company  or
  national  bank,  may submit an application to the superintendent for the
  designation of a banking development district. The superintendent  shall
  issue  a  determination  on  such  an  application  within sixty days of
  receiving  such  application.  If  an  application  is   approved,   the
  superintendent shall transmit notification of such approval to the local
  government,  the  bank,  trust  company  or  national  bank,  the  state
  comptroller, the commissioner of taxation and finance, the  commissioner
  of  the  department  of economic development, the temporary president of
  the senate and the speaker of the assembly.
    2-a. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an application may be
  submitted by a local  government  in  conjunction  with  a  bank,  trust
  company  or  national bank which has already opened a bank branch within
  such area, provided such branch was opened after December  thirty-first,
  nineteen  hundred  ninety-six.  In  considering  the criteria authorized
  pursuant to subdivision one of this section,  the  superintendent  shall
  also  take  into  account  the importance and benefits of preserving the
  banking services offered by the existing branch.
    * 3. The establishment of a branch in a banking  development  district
  by  a  bank,  trust  company  or  national  bank shall be subject to all
  applicable state and federal laws regarding the establishment of  branch
  offices,  including  the  provisions of section one hundred five of this
  article, provided however  that  the  branch  application  fee  required
  pursuant  to section twenty-nine of this chapter shall be waived for any
  such branch. A bank or trust company may submit an application to open a
  branch office simultaneously with the submission of the application  for
  the designation of a banking development district.
    * NB Effective until January 1, 2017
    * 3.  The  establishment of a branch in a banking development district
  by a bank, trust company or  national  bank  shall  be  subject  to  all
  applicable  state and federal laws regarding the establishment of branch
  offices, including the provisions of section one hundred  five  of  this
  article.  A  bank  or  trust company may submit an application to open a
  branch office simultaneously with the submission of the application  for
  the designation of a banking development district.
    * NB Effective January 1, 2017
    4. For the purposes of this section, the term "local government" shall
  mean a county, town, city or village.
    * 5.  (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision two of section
  two hundred thirty-seven of this  chapter;  for  the  purposes  of  this
  section,  paragraph  c  of subdivision two of section ten of the general
  municipal law, subdivision six of section one hundred five of the  state
  finance  law and section four hundred eighty-five-f of the real property
  tax law, any reference to a bank, trust company or national  bank  shall
  be  deemed  to  include  a  savings  bank, savings and loan association,
  federal savings and loan association or federal savings bank;  provided,
  however,  that  such  provisions  of  law  do  not grant a savings bank,
  savings and loan association, federal savings and  loan  association  or
  federal  savings bank eligibility to accept municipal or public funds or
  municipal or public moneys other than for the limited  purposes  of  the
  establishment  of a branch in a banking development district pursuant to
  this section. Any such municipal or public  funds  or  moneys  shall  be
  deposited  only  at the branch established pursuant to this section, and
  any municipal funds or moneys may be deposited only  by  the  sponsoring
  municipality  in  which  the branch and banking development district are
  located; provided further that any such municipal  or  public  funds  or
  moneys  shall  be  subject  to  the  same  requirements  which  apply to
  municipal or public funds or moneys deposited in a bank,  trust  company
  or  national bank and shall also be subject to the provisions of section
  one hundred five of the state finance law or section ten of the  general
  municipal law relating to such deposits.
    (b)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the superintendent of
  financial services shall promulgate rules and regulations  to  authorize
  the  participation  of  savings  banks,  savings  and loan associations,
  federal savings banks and federal savings and loan associations  in  the
  program established pursuant to this section.
    * NB Repealed January 1, 2017
    6.  For  the  purposes of this section, nothing shall preclude a bank,
  trust company or national bank from seeking approval to establish one or
  more branches in an existing banking development district  where  it  or
  another bank has or is authorized to have a branch. The department shall
  have  the  authority to approve any bank, trust company or national bank
  for participation in the banking development district program,  and  any
  branch  approved  pursuant  to  this section shall operate in accordance
  with this section and is eligible for  all  the  rights  and  privileges
  authorized by this section.


::: 96:general_powers.html
 
    &#167; 96.  General  powers.  Every  bank  and  every  trust company shall,
  subject to the restrictions and limitations contained in  this  chapter,
  have the following powers:
    1. To discount, purchase and negotiate promissory notes, drafts, bills
  of  exchange, other evidences of debt, and obligations in writing to pay
  in installments or otherwise all  or  part  of  the  price  of  personal
  property  or  that  of  the  performance  of services; purchase accounts
  receivable, whether or not they are obligations in writing;  lend  money
  on real or personal security; borrow money and secure such borrowings by
  pledging  assets;  buy  and sell exchange, coin and bullion; and receive
  deposits of moneys, securities or  other  personal  property  upon  such
  terms  as  the  bank  or trust company shall prescribe; and exercise all
  such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of
  banking.  For  purposes  of  this  subdivision,   the   term   "accounts
  receivable"  shall not include the right to receive payment for property
  to be sold at a future date or services to be rendered at a future date.
    2. To accept for payment at a future date, drafts drawn upon it by its
  customers and to issue letters of credit authorizing the holders thereof
  to draw upon it or its correspondents at sight or on time.
    3. (a) To receive upon deposit for safe-keeping for  hire  upon  terms
  and  conditions  to  be  prescribed by the bank or trust company, money,
  securities, papers of any kind and any other personal property;
    (b) To engage in the safe deposit business  by  renting  vaults,  safe
  deposit  boxes  and other receptacles upon premises occupied by the bank
  or trust company, upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by
  the bank or trust company.
    4. To issue by its board of directors  capital  notes  or  debentures,
  when  so  specifically  authorized  by  the superintendent, and, when so
  specifically authorized by the superintendent,  to  receive  in  payment
  therefor,  in  whole  or  in part, mortgages, interests therein or other
  property and to  retain,  unrecorded  or  unregistered,  assignments  or
  conveyances  of  such  mortgages,  interests  therein or other property,
  provided that the superintendent shall not approve the retention of  any
  assignment  of  mortgage  or interest therein or any conveyance of other
  property, which  may  be  recorded  or  registered,  without  record  or
  registration  thereof,  except  where such mortgage, interest therein or
  other property is assigned or conveyed by a corporation organized  under
  the banking law or by a corporation wholly owned by not less than twenty
  savings banks of this state.
    5.  To  become  a  member  of  a federal reserve bank, and to have and
  exercise all powers, not in conflict with the laws of this state,  which
  are conferred upon any such member by the federal reserve act. Such bank
  or  trust  company  and  its  directors, officers and stockholders shall
  continue to be subject, however, to all liabilities and  duties  imposed
  upon  them  by  any  law of this state and to all the provisions of this
  chapter relating to banks and trust companies.
    6. To  assume  and  discharge  such  obligations  to  Federal  Deposit
  Insurance Corporation as may be necessary or required for the purpose of
  maintaining deposit insurance in such corporation.
    7.  (a)  To act as financial agent of the United States Government and
  as depositary of public money of the United States  (including,  without
  being limited to, revenues and funds of the United States, and any funds
  the  deposit  of  which  is  subject to the control or regulation of the
  United States or any of its officers, agents, or employees,  and  Postal
  Savings  funds); and to perform all such reasonable duties as depositary
  of such public money  and  as  financial  agent  of  the  United  States
  Government  as  may  be  required of it; and to pledge assets or furnish
  other security, satisfactory in form and amount to the Secretary of  the
  Treasury of the United States, for the safekeeping and prompt payment of
  such  public money deposited with it and for the faithful performance of
  its duties as financial agent of the United States Government.
    (b)  To  pledge assets or furnish other security, satisfactory in form
  and amount to judges of courts  of  bankruptcy,  for  the  repayment  of
  deposits of the money of estates under the national bankruptcy act.
    (c)  To  pledge assets or furnish other security, satisfactory in form
  and amount to the depositor, for the repayment of  moneys  held  in  the
  name  of  any  state  (which  term  shall include every territory of the
  United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of  Puerto
  Rico), or of any foreign nation, or of any Indian nation or tribe, or of
  any  political  subdivision  or  instrumentality  or authority of any of
  them, when required to be secured by applicable law, decree,  regulation
  or  resolution,  and  to pledge assets or furnish other security for the
  repayment of moneys held as fiduciary, or in the name of a fiduciary, of
  any trust created by any such state, foreign nation,  Indian  nation  or
  tribe,  political  subdivision, instrumentality or authority as required
  by the terms of such trust; provided, however, that before any pledge or
  security is made or furnished to any depositor other than this state  or
  a political subdivision, instrumentality or authority of this state, the
  bank  or trust company shall obtain a certified or official copy of such
  law, decree, regulation, or resolution or trust requiring such pledge or
  other security, and an opinion of counsel that such pledge  or  security
  is  required  by  such  law, decree, regulation, or resolution or by the
  terms of such trust.
    9. To execute and deliver such guaranties  as  may  be  incidental  to
  carrying on the business of a bank or trust company.
    10.  To  exercise,  subject  to such regulations as may be issued from
  time to time by the superintendent, through any  foreign  branch  office
  (other  than  one  opened  or  occupied  in  another state of the United
  States, the District of Columbia, any territory of  the  United  States,
  Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Northern
  Mariana   Islands)   opened  and  occupied  with  the  approval  of  the
  superintendent as provided in section one hundred five of this  article,
  such  further  powers as may be usual in connection with the transaction
  of the business of banking in the place where such foreign branch office
  shall transact business, provided that no  such  foreign  branch  office
  shall  engage in the general business of producing, distributing, buying
  or selling goods, wares, or merchandise, nor,  except  with  respect  to
  securities  issued  by  any foreign nation or any political subdivision,
  agency or instrumentality thereof, engage or  participate,  directly  or
  indirectly,  in  the  business  of underwriting, selling or distributing
  securities.
    11. To designate one or more agents (except its employees) to issue or
  sell its travelers checks or money orders at locations  other  than  its
  principal  office  or  branch offices authorized pursuant to section one
  hundred five of this chapter, subject to such rules and  regulations  as
  the superintendent may make from time to time.
    12.  To  acquire  and  lease personal property, or to acquire personal
  property subject  to  an  existing  lease  together  with  the  lessor's
  interest  therein,  subject  to  such  limitations and conditions as the
  superintendent of financial services may from time to time prescribe  by
  general regulation.
    13. To reserve or order transportation, travel accommodations or other
  travel services.
    14.  To  arrange, purchase or sell loans secured by liens on interests
  in real estate, subject to such terms, conditions and limitations as may
  be prescribed by the superintendent by regulation.
    * 16. In addition  to  such  authority  as  is  contained  in  section
  ninety-eight  of  this  chapter  and notwithstanding any limitations set
  forth therein, to purchase, lease, exchange or  otherwise  acquire  real
  property,  improved  or  unimproved,  or any interest therein, to erect,
  construct,  rebuild,  enlarge,  alter,  improve,  maintain,  manage  and
  operate buildings or other improvements of any description  thereon,  to
  sell, lease, sublet, mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of same and
  execute,  perform  and carry out contracts for construction, alteration,
  improvement, maintenance, management or repair thereof, to make loans in
  connection therewith, as owner, co-owner or otherwise, subject  to  such
  specific  or  general  approvals and limitations as shall be required by
  regulations promulgated from time  to  time  by  the  superintendent  of
  financial services pursuant to this subdivision; provided, however, that
  no  activity  specified  herein  shall  be  undertaken  pursuant  to the
  authority contained in this  subdivision  until  the  superintendent  of
  financial   services   shall  have  issued  regulations  specifying  the
  limitations and requirements which shall be imposed in  connection  with
  the  investments  and  activities referred to herein, including, without
  limitation, the consideration of such bank or trust company's record  in
  meeting  the  credit  needs  of  local communities within the meaning of
  section twenty-eight-b of this chapter.
    * NB Expired June 30, 1988


::: 97:power_to_purchase_securities_and_stocks.html
 
    &#167; 97.  Power  to  purchase  securities  and  stocks.  Subject  to  the
  restrictions and limitations contained in this chapter, a bank or  trust
  company may invest in and have and exercise all rights of ownership with
  respect to:
    1.  Bonds,  notes,  debentures  and  other  obligations for payment of
  money, which are not in default as to either principal or interest  when
  acquired.
    2. Stocks of any city, county, town or village of this state which are
  not in default as to either principal or interest when acquired.
    3.  Stock of a federal reserve bank in the amount necessary to qualify
  for membership in such reserve bank.
    4. Stock of each of the following to an amount not in  excess  of  ten
  per  centum  of the capital stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of
  such bank or trust company:
    (a) Any safe deposit company which does business on premises owned  or
  leased by the bank or trust company or the vaults of which are connected
  with  or  adjacent  to an office of such bank or trust company; provided
  that the purchase and holding of such stock is first duly authorized  by
  resolution of the board of directors of the bank or trust company and by
  written approval of the superintendent, stating the number and amount of
  the  shares  which may be so purchased and held, excepting that the bank
  or  trust  company  may,   without   the   written   approval   of   the
  superintendent, acquire the stock owned by a former director of the safe
  deposit company at the time that he ceased to be a director. The bank or
  trust  company  may  not  pay, without the prior written approval of the
  superintendent, more for  such  stock  than  the  cost  thereof  to  the
  director.
    (b)  Any investment company qualified to exercise the powers specified
  in subdivision two of section five hundred eight of this chapter;
    (c) The Bank for International Settlements.
    4-a. Subject to such restrictions as the superintendent  of  financial
  services  may prescribe, stock or other equity investments in subsidiary
  corporations,   partnerships,   unincorporated   associations,   limited
  liability companies, or other entities engaged in, or to be organized to
  engage in the following activities:
    (a)  To  acquire  and lease personal property under the same terms and
  conditions as provided in subdivision twelve of  section  ninety-six  of
  this article;
    (b)  To purchase accounts receivable as provided in subdivision one of
  section ninety-six of this article;
    (c) To be a  corporation  organized  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
  section  twenty-five  (a)  of  an  act of congress entitled the "Federal
  Reserve Act";
    (d) To own or operate  real  or  personal  property  acquired  through
  foreclosure or in settlement or reduction of debts due it;
    (e)  To  own  or  operate  real  or  personal property for use as bank
  premises; or
    (f) To transact any other business in which the bank or trust  company
  may engage directly.
    4-b.  Common or preferred stock of any corporation created or existing
  under the laws of the  United  States  or  of  any  state,  district  or
  territory thereof, or of the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, provided that:
  (a)  such  common  or  preferred  stock  is  registered  on  a  national
  securities exchange, as provided in an act of  congress  of  the  United
  States  entitled  the  "Securities  Exchange Act of 1934", approved June
  sixth, nineteen hundred thirty-four, as amended, or such other  exchange
  or  market system as the superintendent shall approve by regulation; (b)
  the aggregate amount of all investments in common and preferred stock as
  permitted by this subdivision shall at no time exceed two percent of the
  assets or twenty percent of the capital, surplus and  undivided  profits
  of  the  bank or trust company, whichever is less, provided however that
  the  superintendent  may,  upon  the request of a bank or trust company,
  approve an increase in such  aggregate  amount  to  a  maximum  of  five
  percent of the assets or one hundred percent of the capital, surplus and
  undivided  profits  of  such  bank  or trust company, whichever is less,
  subject  to  any   limitations   or   conditions   prescribed   by   the
  superintendent;  (c)  the  aggregate  amount  of  all investments in the
  common  and  preferred  stock  of  any  one  issuer  pursuant  to   this
  subdivision,  together  with  the aggregate amount of all investments in
  the bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations of  such  issuer  made
  pursuant  to  paragraph  (i)  of  subdivision one of section one hundred
  three of this chapter, shall at no time exceed one percent of the assets
  or fifteen percent of the capital, surplus and undivided profits of  the
  bank  or  trust  company,  whichever  is  less; and (d) no bank or trust
  company shall at any time hold pursuant to this  subdivision  more  than
  two  percent  of the total issued and outstanding shares of stock of any
  one issuer.
    4-c. Subject to such restrictions as the superintendent  of  financial
  services  may  prescribe,  stock or other equity interest in one or more
  small business investment  companies,  as  authorized  pursuant  to  the
  provisions of an act of congress entitled "Small Business Investment Act
  of  1958,"  as amended, or in any entity established to invest solely in
  such small business investment companies, except that in no event  shall
  the  total amount of such investments exceed five percent of the capital
  stock, surplus fund and undivided profits of such bank or trust company.
    5. So much of the capital stock of, or any other equity  interest  in,
  any   other  corporations,  partnerships,  unincorporated  associations,
  limited liability companies, or other entities as  may  be  specifically
  authorized  by  the  laws  of  this  state  or by the superintendent, or
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent.
    The superintendent is authorized to adopt such rules  and  regulations
  as  shall permit banks and trust companies to make a loan which provides
  for receipt of shares of stock of or any other equity interest in, or  a
  share of the profits, income or earnings of, a borrower in consideration
  for making the loan.
    A bank or trust company may acquire stock or any other equity interest
  in  settlement  or  reduction  of  a  loan,  or  advance of credit or in
  exchange for an investment previously made in  good  faith  and  in  the
  ordinary  course  of  business,  where  such acquisition of stock or any
  other equity interest is necessary in order to minimize or avoid loss in
  connection  with  any  such  loan,  advance  of  credit  or   investment
  previously  made in good faith. A trust company may acquire stock or any
  other equity interest from any estate, trust or  fund  with  respect  to
  which  such  trust company is acting in a fiduciary capacity, if a claim
  is asserted or may be asserted against it with respect to  the  purchase
  or  retention of such stock or equity interest for such estate, trust or
  fund,  (a)  where  such  acquisition  by  the  trust  company  has  been
  authorized  or  directed by a court, or (b) where such trust company has
  been advised by its counsel in writing that it has incurred a contingent
  or potential liability with respect to the purchase or retention of such
  stock or equity interest and  such  trust  company  desires  to  relieve
  itself from such liability. Stocks or any other equity interest acquired
  pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph may be held for such period
  as the board of directors deems advisable.
    A  bank  or  trust  company  may  continue  to hold any bonds or other
  securities or stock which it holds in accordance with the provisions  of
  law at the time this act takes effect.
    No  bank  or  trust company shall purchase, acquire, or hold any stock
  of, or any other equity  interest  in,  any  corporation  or  any  other
  entity, except as provided in this section.


::: 98-a:club_accounts.html
 
    &#167; 98-a.  Club  accounts.  1.  No  contract under which a bank or trust
  company agrees to repay deposits of fixed sums made at regular intervals
  at a given time with all interest or dividends credited thereon,  or  to
  repay  said  deposits when, together with interest or dividends credited
  thereon,  they  shall  equal  a  specified  sum,  may  provide  for  any
  forfeiture  of  the sums deposited in the event of the discontinuance of
  the regular  payments.  Interest  or  dividends  on  club  accounts,  if
  offered,  must  be  credited at least quarterly and may not be forfeited
  once credited, in the event of the discontinuance of regular payments.
    2. Any bank which provides for deposits in club accounts shall, in all
  advertising, announcements or brochures  pertaining  to  such  accounts,
  state  whether  or  not  interest  or dividends are paid thereon and, if
  interest or dividends are paid, shall state the rate or form of interest
  or dividends so paid in accordance with any rules and  regulations  that
  may be prescribed by the superintendent.


::: 98:power_to_take_and_hold_real_estate_restrictions.html
 
    &#167; 98.  Power  to take and hold real estate; restrictions. 1. A bank or
  trust company may purchase, hold, lease  and  convey  real  property  as
  follows:
    (a)  A plot whereon there is or may be erected a building suitable for
  the convenient transaction of its business, from portions of  which  not
  required  for  its  own use a revenue may be derived, and a plot whereon
  parking accommodations are, or are to  be,  provided,  with  or  without
  charge, primarily for its customers or employees or both, and a building
  or a portion or portions thereof for use by the bank or trust company in
  its business, provided that the aggregate of all investments of any bank
  or trust company in such plots and buildings and in a leased building or
  a  portion  or  portions  thereof  or  in the stock, debentures or other
  obligations of any corporation holding such plots or  buildings  and  of
  all  loans  to or upon the security of the stock of any such corporation
  shall not exceed forty per centum of the aggregate of the capital stock,
  surplus fund and undivided profits of such bank or trust company, except
  with the approval of the  superintendent.  Any  bank  or  trust  company
  having,  prior to April twenty-third, nineteen hundred thirty-four, made
  loans and investments in excess of the limitations  prescribed  by  this
  paragraph may retain any such loans and investments notwithstanding such
  limitations.
    (b)  Such  as  shall  be  conveyed  to  it  in  satisfaction  of debts
  previously contracted in the course of its business.
    (c) Such as it shall purchase at sales  under  judgments,  decrees  or
  mortgages held by it.
    (d)  Such  purchase, lease, conveyance or other acquisition or sale of
  real  property  which  is  located  outside  the  United   States,   its
  territories  and  possessions,  and  which  is  used  principally as the
  residence of one or more directors, officers, or employees of  the  bank
  or trust company as may be specifically approved by the superintendent.
    (e)  A  whole  or  part interest in a "project", as defined in the New
  York state urban development corporation act, pursuant to  sections  six
  or  eight  of  such  act.  An investment by a bank or trust company in a
  single project shall not exceed one per centum of the assets or  fifteen
  per  centum  of  the  combined capital stock, surplus fund and undivided
  profits of such bank or  trust  company,  whichever  is  less,  and  the
  aggregate of all investments of a bank or trust company in such projects
  and  investments in securities of any "subsidiary" of the New York state
  urban development corporation, as defined in the New  York  state  urban
  development  corporation  act,  shall  not exceed five per centum of the
  assets or seventy-five per centum of the combined capital stock, surplus
  fund and undivided profits of such bank or trust company,  whichever  is
  less.
    2.  All real estate purchased by any bank or trust company or taken by
  it in settlement of debts due it, shall be conveyed to it  in  its  name
  or,  subject  to such regulations and restrictions as the superintendent
  of financial services finds to be necessary and proper, may be taken  in
  the  name  of  a  duly authorized nominee. All such conveyances shall be
  immediately recorded or registered in the office of the proper recording
  officer of the county in which such real estate is located.


::: 9:checks_drawn_against_corporate_funds_or_payable_to_corporations_no_notice_of_defense_against_or_claim_to_check.html
 
    &#167; 9.  Checks drawn against corporate funds or payable to corporations;
  no notice of defense against or claim to check. Notwithstanding  section
  3-304  of  the  uniform  commercial  code,  the drawing of a check by an
  officer or agent of a corporation against the account of, or in the name
  of the corporation, whether the check is drawn against an account in the
  name of the corporation, or in the name of such officer or agent of  the
  corporation  as such, to himself as payee, or the endorsement of a check
  in the name of the corporation, to himself as endorsee,  and  in  either
  case  the  cashing of such check or the deposit thereof to the credit of
  his personal account, shall not constitute notice to a  private  banker,
  banking  organization  or branch of a foreign banking corporation of any
  defense against or claim to  the  check  on  the  part  of  any  person,
  provided  that the private banker, banking organization or branch has on
  file an authorization from the corporation showing that the  officer  or
  agent  is  authorized on behalf of the corporation to perform any of the
  above acts for unlimited or limited amounts, and that the amount of  the
  check  does  not exceed the maximum limits of the amount so contained in
  the authorization so  filed  for  the  officer  or  agent  when  such  a
  limitation is contained therein.


::: article_10-a:420l_state_savings_and_loan_insurance_fund.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA10-A$$@TXBNK0A10-A","LAW")> Article 10-A</a> -  STATE SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE FUND
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420$$@TXBNK0420","LAW")> 420</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-A$$@TXBNK0420-A","LAW")> 420-A</a> - State savings and loan insurance fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-B$$@TXBNK0420-B","LAW")> 420-B</a> - Purposes of the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-C$$@TXBNK0420-C","LAW")> 420-C</a> - General powers of the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-D$$@TXBNK0420-D","LAW")> 420-D</a> - Capital stock; advance premiums; other fiscal provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-E$$@TXBNK0420-E","LAW")> 420-E</a> - Exemption from taxation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-F$$@TXBNK0420-F","LAW")> 420-F</a> - Use of fund name prohibited; penalties for violation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-G$$@TXBNK0420-G","LAW")> 420-G</a> - Insurance of accounts and eligibility provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-H$$@TXBNK0420-H","LAW")> 420-H</a> - Premiums on insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-I$$@TXBNK0420-I","LAW")> 420-I</a> - Payment of insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-J$$@TXBNK0420-J","LAW")> 420-J</a> - Liquidation of insured savings and loan associations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-K$$@TXBNK0420-K","LAW")> 420-K</a> - Termination of insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK420-L$$@TXBNK0420-L","LAW")> 420-L</a> - Savings and loan bank eligible as fiscal agent.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_10-a:state_savings_and_loan_insurance_fund.html
 
                                ARTICLE 10-A
 
                    STATE SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE FUND
 
  Section 420.   Definitions.
          420-a. State savings and loan insurance fund.
          420-b. Purposes of the fund.
          420-c. General powers of the fund.
          420-d. Capital stock; advance premiums; other fiscal provisions.
          420-e. Exemption from taxation.
          420-f. Use of fund name prohibited; penalties for violation.
          420-g. Insurance of accounts and eligibility provisions.
          420-h. Premiums on insurance.
          420-i. Payment of insurance.
          420-j. Liquidation of insured savings and loan associations.
          420-k. Termination of insurance.
          420-l. Savings and loan bank eligible as fiscal agent.


::: article_10-b:446_savings_and_loan_bank_of_the_state_of_new_york.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA10-B$$@TXBNK0A10-B","LAW")> Article 10-B</a> -  SAVINGS AND LOAN BANK OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK432$$@TXBNK0432","LAW")> 432</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK433$$@TXBNK0433","LAW")> 433</a> - Proposed by-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK434$$@TXBNK0434","LAW")> 434</a> - When corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to commencing business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK435$$@TXBNK0435","LAW")> 435</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK436$$@TXBNK0436","LAW")> 436</a> - Restrictions on powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK437$$@TXBNK0437","LAW")> 437</a> - Redemption of bonds and notes; procedure in event of default.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK438$$@TXBNK0438","LAW")> 438</a> - Surplus account.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK439$$@TXBNK0439","LAW")> 439</a> - Membership; liability; transfer of shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK440$$@TXBNK0440","LAW")> 440</a> - Commissions and payment of expenses.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK441$$@TXBNK0441","LAW")> 441</a> - Qualifications and disqualification of directors; oath of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK442$$@TXBNK0442","LAW")> 442</a> - Number of directors; filling of vacancies; change of number.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK443$$@TXBNK0443","LAW")> 443</a> - Amendment of by-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK444$$@TXBNK0444","LAW")> 444</a> - Annual meeting; notice; voting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK445$$@TXBNK0445","LAW")> 445</a> - Preference of credits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK446$$@TXBNK0446","LAW")> 446</a> - Exemptions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_10-b:savings_and_loan_bank_of_the_state_of_new_york.html
 
                                 ARTICLE X-B
 
               SAVINGS AND LOAN BANK OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
  Section 432. Incorporation; organization certificate.
          433. Proposed by-laws.
          434. When  corporate  existence  begins; conditions precedent to
                 commencing business.
          435. General powers.
          436. Restrictions on powers.
          437. Redemption of  bonds  and  notes;  procedure  in  event  of
                 default.
          438. Surplus account.
          439. Membership; liability; transfer of shares.
          440. Commissions and payment of expenses.
          441. Qualifications  and  disqualification of directors; oath of
                 directors.
          442. Number  of  directors;  filling  of  vacancies;  change  of
                 number.
          443. Amendment of by-laws.
          444. Annual meeting; notice; voting.
          445. Preference of credits.
          446. Exemptions.


::: article_10-c:447d_mutual_holding_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA10-C$$@TXBNK0A10-C","LAW")> Article 10-C</a> -  MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK447$$@TXBNK0447","LAW")> 447</a> - Authorization of the formation of mutual holding companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK447-A$$@TXBNK0447-A","LAW")> 447-A</a> - Required approvals.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK447-B$$@TXBNK0447-B","LAW")> 447-B</a> - Formation of a mutual holding company.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK447-C$$@TXBNK0447-C","LAW")> 447-C</a> - Mutual holding company powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK447-D$$@TXBNK0447-D","LAW")> 447-D</a> - Conversion of mutual holding company into stock holding company.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_10-c:mutual_holding_companies.html
 
                                 ARTICLE X-C
 
                          MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES
 
  Section 447.   Authorization   of   the   formation  of  mutual  holding
                   companies.
          447-a. Required approvals.
          447-b. Formation of a mutual holding company.
          447-c. Mutual holding company powers.
          447-d. Conversion of mutual holding company into  stock  holding
                   company.


::: article_10:413_savings_and_loan_associations.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA10$$@TXBNK0A10","LAW")> Article 10</a> -  SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK375$$@TXBNK0375","LAW")> 375</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK376$$@TXBNK0376","LAW")> 376</a> - Proposed by-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK377$$@TXBNK0377","LAW")> 377</a> - When corporate existence begins.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378$$@TXBNK0378","LAW")> 378</a> - Power to issue shares; dues thereon.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378-A$$@TXBNK0378-A","LAW")> 378-A</a> - Time deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378-B$$@TXBNK0378-B","LAW")> 378-B</a> - Club accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378-C$$@TXBNK0378-C","LAW")> 378-C</a> - Excelsior linked deposit program.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378-D$$@TXBNK0378-D","LAW")> 378-D</a> - Preservation of books and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK378-E$$@TXBNK0378-E","LAW")> 378-E</a> - Water pollution control linked deposit program.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK379$$@TXBNK0379","LAW")> 379</a> - Power to invest in securities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK379-B$$@TXBNK0379-B","LAW")> 379-B</a> - Service corporation owned by associations; authorized activities of such corporation; investment therein.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380$$@TXBNK0380","LAW")> 380</a> - Power to make loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-A$$@TXBNK0380-A","LAW")> 380-A</a> - Power to purchase mortgage, loan or investment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-B$$@TXBNK0380-B","LAW")> 380-B</a> - Power to purchase mortgages from mortgage holders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-C$$@TXBNK0380-C","LAW")> 380-C</a> - Power to participate in certain loans and mortgage investments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-E$$@TXBNK0380-E","LAW")> 380-E</a> - Effect of usury.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-F$$@TXBNK0380-F","LAW")> 380-F</a> - Power to make advances of federal funds.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-G$$@TXBNK0380-G","LAW")> 380-G</a> - Power to engage in line of credit financing of residential real estate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-H$$@TXBNK0380-H","LAW")> 380-H</a> - Trust powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-I$$@TXBNK0380-I","LAW")> 380-I</a> - Personal loan departments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-J$$@TXBNK0380-J","LAW")> 380-J</a> - Authorization to acquire and lease personal property.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-K$$@TXBNK0380-K","LAW")> 380-K</a> - Investment in promissory notes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-L$$@TXBNK0380-L","LAW")> 380-L</a> - Excelsior linked deposit program.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK380-M$$@TXBNK0380-M","LAW")> 380-M</a> - Water pollution control linked deposit program.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK381$$@TXBNK0381","LAW")> 381</a> - Power to take and hold real estate; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK382$$@TXBNK0382","LAW")> 382</a> - Power to borrow.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK382-A$$@TXBNK0382-A","LAW")> 382-A</a> - Power to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust and of individual retirement account; investment in savings account.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK382-B$$@TXBNK0382-B","LAW")> 382-B</a> - Power to issue certain obligations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK383$$@TXBNK0383","LAW")> 383</a> - Other powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK383-A$$@TXBNK0383-A","LAW")> 383-A</a> - Rental of safe deposit boxes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK384$$@TXBNK0384","LAW")> 384</a> - Entries in books; restrictions; amortization of securities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK385$$@TXBNK0385","LAW")> 385</a> - Surplus account.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK386$$@TXBNK0386","LAW")> 386</a> - Profits; how and when to be computed.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK387$$@TXBNK0387","LAW")> 387</a> - Credits to surplus account and undivided profits; dividends to shareholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK388$$@TXBNK0388","LAW")> 388</a> - Fines and penalties for failure to make payments on instalment shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK389$$@TXBNK0389","LAW")> 389</a> - Matured shares; conversion into shares of another class upon notice.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK390$$@TXBNK0390","LAW")> 390</a> - Withdrawal of unpledged shares; provisions for dividends.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK392$$@TXBNK0392","LAW")> 392</a> - Retirement of shares; suspension; transfer.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK393$$@TXBNK0393","LAW")> 393</a> - Repayment of mortgage loans; application of pledged shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK394$$@TXBNK0394","LAW")> 394</a> - Joint shares; shares of minors; shares in trust.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK395$$@TXBNK0395","LAW")> 395</a> - Alternative provisions relative to payment of interest to shareholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK396$$@TXBNK0396","LAW")> 396</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office; maintenance of branch office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK396-A$$@TXBNK0396-A","LAW")> 396-A</a> - Electronic facilities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK396-B$$@TXBNK0396-B","LAW")> 396-B</a> - Acceptance of United States currency.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK397$$@TXBNK0397","LAW")> 397</a> - Number, qualifications and disqualifications of directors; oath; quorum; meeting of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK397-A$$@TXBNK0397-A","LAW")> 397-A</a> - Report to directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK398$$@TXBNK0398","LAW")> 398</a> - Filling of vacancies in board of directors; change in number of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK398-A$$@TXBNK0398-A","LAW")> 398-A</a> - Forfeiture of office of director.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK398-B$$@TXBNK0398-B","LAW")> 398-B</a> - Duties of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK398-C$$@TXBNK0398-C","LAW")> 398-C</a> - Executive committee and other committees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK399$$@TXBNK0399","LAW")> 399</a> - Restrictions on directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK399-A$$@TXBNK0399-A","LAW")> 399-A</a> - Restrictions on holding of certain offices by executive officers of federal savings banks and federal savings associations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK400$$@TXBNK0400","LAW")> 400</a> - Pensions; insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK401$$@TXBNK0401","LAW")> 401</a> - Official communications to be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK402$$@TXBNK0402","LAW")> 402</a> - Amendment of articles of association and by-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK403$$@TXBNK0403","LAW")> 403</a> - Examination by directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK404$$@TXBNK0404","LAW")> 404</a> - Reports to the superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK404-A$$@TXBNK0404-A","LAW")> 404-A</a> - Photographic reproduction of records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK405$$@TXBNK0405","LAW")> 405</a> - Annual report to shareholders; delivery and publication.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK406$$@TXBNK0406","LAW")> 406</a> - Charters conformed to this article; obligations and rights unimpaired; saving clause; applicability to stock-form savings and loan associations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK407$$@TXBNK0407","LAW")> 407</a> - Exemptions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK409$$@TXBNK0409","LAW")> 409</a> - Conversion of a state savings and loan association into a federal savings and loan association.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK410$$@TXBNK0410","LAW")> 410</a> - Conversion of a federal savings and loan association into a state savings and loan association.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK411$$@TXBNK0411","LAW")> 411</a> - Conversion of a savings and loan association or federal savings and loan association into a savings bank.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK412$$@TXBNK0412","LAW")> 412</a> - Conversion of federal savings institutions to state charter.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK413$$@TXBNK0413","LAW")> 413</a> - Reciprocal interstate acquisitions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_10:savings_and_loan_associations.html
 
                                  ARTICLE X
                        SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
  Section 375.   Incorporation; organization certificate.
          376.   Proposed by-laws.
          377.   When corporate existence begins.
          378.   Power to issue shares; dues thereon.
          378-a. Time deposits.
          378-b. Club accounts.
          378-c. Excelsior linked deposit program.
          378-d. Preservation of books and records.
          378-e. Water pollution control linked deposit program.
          379.   Power to invest in securities.
          379-b. Service  corporation  owned  by  associations; authorized
                   activities of such corporation; investment therein.
          380.   Power to make loans.
          380-a. Power to purchase mortgage, loan or investment.
          380-b. Power to purchase mortgages from mortgage holders.
          380-c. Power  to  participate  in  certain  loans  and  mortgage
                   investments.
          380-e. Effect of usury.
          380-f. Power to make advances of federal funds.
          380-g. Power   to   engage   in  line  of  credit  financing  of
                   residential real estate.
          380-h. Trust powers.
          380-i. Personal loan departments.
          380-j. Authorization to acquire and lease personal property.
          380-k. Investment in promissory notes.
          380-l. Excelsior linked deposit program.
          380-m. Water pollution control linked deposit program.
          381.   Power to take and hold real estate; restrictions.
          382.   Power to borrow.
          382-a. Power to act as trustee  under  self-employed  retirement
                   trust  and of individual retirement account; investment
                   in savings account.
          382-b. Power to issue certain obligations.
          383.   Other powers.
          383-a. Rental of safe deposit boxes.
          384.   Entries   in   books;   restrictions;   amortization   of
                   securities.
          385.   Surplus account.
          386.   Profits; how and when to be computed.
          387.   Credits   to   surplus  account  and  undivided  profits;
                   dividends to shareholders.
          388.   Fines and penalties  for  failure  to  make  payments  on
                   instalment shares.
          389.   Matured  shares;  conversion into shares of another class
                   upon notice.
          390.   Withdrawal of unpledged shares; provisions for dividends.
          392.   Retirement of shares; suspension; transfer.
          393.   Repayment  of  mortgage  loans;  application  of  pledged
                   shares.
          394.   Joint shares; shares of minors; shares in trust.
          395.   Alternative provisions relative to payment of interest to
                   shareholders.
          396.   Change  of  location;  change of designation of principal
                   office; maintenance of branch office.
          396-a. Electronic facilities.
          396-b. Acceptance of United States currency.
          397.   Number,   qualifications   and    disqualifications    of
                   directors; oath; quorum; meeting of directors.
          397-a. Report to directors.
          398.   Filling  of  vacancies  in  board of directors; change in
                   number of directors.
          398-a. Forfeiture of office of director.
          398-b. Duties of directors and officers.
          398-c. Executive committee and other committees.
          399.   Restrictions on directors and officers.
          399-a. Restrictions on holding of certain offices  by  executive
                   officers  of  federal savings banks and federal savings
                   associations.
          400.   Pensions; insurance.
          401.   Official communications to be submitted to directors  and
                   noted in minutes.
          402.   Amendment of articles of association and by-laws.
          403.   Examination by directors.
          404.   Reports  to  the  superintendent;  penalty for failure to
                   make.
          404-a. Photographic reproduction of records.
          405.   Annual report to shareholders; delivery and publication.
          406.   Charters  conformed  to  this  article;  obligations  and
                   rights  unimpaired;  saving  clause;  applicability  to
                   stock-form savings and loan associations.
          407.   Exemptions.
          409.   Conversion of a state savings and loan association into a
                   federal savings and loan association.
          410.   Conversion of a federal savings and loan association into
                   a state savings and loan association.
          411.   Conversion of a savings and loan association  or  federal
                   savings and loan association into a savings bank.
          412.   Conversion  of  federal  savings  institutions  to  state
                   charter.
          413.   Reciprocal interstate acquisitions.


::: article_11-a:490j_credit_union_insurance_fund.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA11-A$$@TXBNK0A11-A","LAW")> Article 11-A</a> -  CREDIT UNION INSURANCE FUND
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-A$$@TXBNK0490-A","LAW")> 490-A</a> - Creation of fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-B$$@TXBNK0490-B","LAW")> 490-B</a> - Management of fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-C$$@TXBNK0490-C","LAW")> 490-C</a> - Execution and filing of agreement.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-D$$@TXBNK0490-D","LAW")> 490-D</a> - Provisions of agreement.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-E$$@TXBNK0490-E","LAW")> 490-E</a> - Powers and duties of trustee or trustees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-F$$@TXBNK0490-F","LAW")> 490-F</a> - Powers of superintendent to obtain payment from fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-G$$@TXBNK0490-G","LAW")> 490-G</a> - Payment of liquidating dividends on uninsured shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-H$$@TXBNK0490-H","LAW")> 490-H</a> - Exemption of fund from taxation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-I$$@TXBNK0490-I","LAW")> 490-I</a> - Liability for payment of contributions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK490-J$$@TXBNK0490-J","LAW")> 490-J</a> - Powers of credit unions with respect to agreement.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_11-a:credit_union_insurance_fund.html
 
                                ARTICLE 11-A
 
                         CREDIT UNION INSURANCE FUND
 
  Section 490-a. Creation of fund.
          490-b. Management of fund.
          490-c. Execution and filing of agreement.
          490-d. Provisions of agreement.
          490-e. Powers and duties of trustee or trustees.
          490-f. Powers of superintendent to obtain payment from fund.
          490-g. Payment of liquidating dividends on uninsured shares.
          490-h. Exemption of fund from taxation.
          490-i. Liability for payment of contributions.
          490-j. Powers of credit unions with respect to agreement.


::: article_11-b:502_sales_finance_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA11-B$$@TXBNK0A11-B","LAW")> Article 11-B</a> -  SALES FINANCE COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK491$$@TXBNK0491","LAW")> 491</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK492$$@TXBNK0492","LAW")> 492</a> - License.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK492-A$$@TXBNK0492-A","LAW")> 492-A</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK493$$@TXBNK0493","LAW")> 493</a> - Action by superintendent on application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK494$$@TXBNK0494","LAW")> 494</a> - License form; posting; limitations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK495$$@TXBNK0495","LAW")> 495</a> - Revocation, suspension or surrender of licenses.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK496$$@TXBNK0496","LAW")> 496</a> - Judicial review.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK497$$@TXBNK0497","LAW")> 497</a> - Investigations and examinations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK498$$@TXBNK0498","LAW")> 498</a> - Complaints.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK498-B$$@TXBNK0498-B","LAW")> 498-B</a> - Regulations and rulings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK499$$@TXBNK0499","LAW")> 499</a> - Violations and penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK501$$@TXBNK0501","LAW")> 501</a> - Repeal of inconsistent acts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK502$$@TXBNK0502","LAW")> 502</a> - Severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_11-b:sales_finance_companies.html
 
                                ARTICLE 11-B
 
                           SALES FINANCE COMPANIES
 
  Section 491.   Definitions.
          492.   License.
          492-a. Changes in control.
          493.   Action by superintendent on application.
          494.   License form; posting; limitations.
          495.   Revocation, suspension or surrender of licenses.
          496.   Judicial review.
          497.   Investigations and examinations.
          498.   Complaints.
          498-b. Regulations and rulings.
          499.   Violations and penalties.
          501.   Repeal of inconsistent acts.
          502.   Severability.


::: article_11:487a_credit_unions.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA11$$@TXBNK0A11","LAW")> Article 11</a> -  CREDIT UNIONS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK450$$@TXBNK0450","LAW")> 450</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK450-A$$@TXBNK0450-A","LAW")> 450-A</a> - Designation of low income credit union.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK450-B$$@TXBNK0450-B","LAW")> 450-B</a> - Designation of student branches.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK451$$@TXBNK0451","LAW")> 451</a> - Proposed bylaws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK452$$@TXBNK0452","LAW")> 452</a> - When corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to commencing business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK453$$@TXBNK0453","LAW")> 453</a> - Corporate credit unions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK454$$@TXBNK0454","LAW")> 454</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK455$$@TXBNK0455","LAW")> 455</a> - Trust powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK456$$@TXBNK0456","LAW")> 456</a> - Limitations upon powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK457$$@TXBNK0457","LAW")> 457</a> - Capital.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK458-A$$@TXBNK0458-A","LAW")> 458-A</a> - Maintenance of reserves.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK459$$@TXBNK0459","LAW")> 459</a> - Allowance for loan loss.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK460$$@TXBNK0460","LAW")> 460</a> - Dividends to shareholders; conditions precedent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK461$$@TXBNK0461","LAW")> 461</a> - Change of location; estblishment of stations; extension or revival of corporate existence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK462$$@TXBNK0462","LAW")> 462</a> - Foreign credit unions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK463$$@TXBNK0463","LAW")> 463</a> - Exemptions and individual liability of shareholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK464$$@TXBNK0464","LAW")> 464</a> - Manner of withdrawal; expulsion or suspension of members; effect upon liabilities to credit unions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK465$$@TXBNK0465","LAW")> 465</a> - Withdrawal of shares after voting to liquidate; notices to shareholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK466$$@TXBNK0466","LAW")> 466</a> - Meetings of shareholders; voting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK467$$@TXBNK0467","LAW")> 467</a> - Qualifications and disqualifications of directors and committee members.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK468$$@TXBNK0468","LAW")> 468</a> - Oaths of directors; officers and members of committees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK469$$@TXBNK0469","LAW")> 469</a> - Vacancies; change in number of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK470$$@TXBNK0470","LAW")> 470</a> - Powers and duties of directors; not entitled to compensation; disqualification of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK471$$@TXBNK0471","LAW")> 471</a> - Duty of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK472$$@TXBNK0472","LAW")> 472</a> - Special duties of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK473$$@TXBNK0473","LAW")> 473</a> - Loan officers, credit committee; duties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK474$$@TXBNK0474","LAW")> 474</a> - Loan reports to directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK475$$@TXBNK0475","LAW")> 475</a> - Supervisory committee; powers and duties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK476$$@TXBNK0476","LAW")> 476</a> - Officers; powers and duties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK477$$@TXBNK0477","LAW")> 477</a> - Retirement and insurance benefits for officers and employees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK478$$@TXBNK0478","LAW")> 478</a> - Amendment of bylaws; approval of superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK479$$@TXBNK0479","LAW")> 479</a> - Credit union not liable for taxation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK480$$@TXBNK0480","LAW")> 480</a> - Fiscal year.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK481$$@TXBNK0481","LAW")> 481</a> - Communications from department of financial services must be submitted to directors and supervisory committee, and noted in the minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK482$$@TXBNK0482","LAW")> 482</a> - Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK483$$@TXBNK0483","LAW")> 483</a> - Penalty for loans to non-members; recovery.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK484$$@TXBNK0484","LAW")> 484</a> - Penality for use of term "credit union".
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK485$$@TXBNK0485","LAW")> 485</a> - Entries in books; preservation of records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK486$$@TXBNK0486","LAW")> 486</a> - Conversion of a federal credit union into a state credit union.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK486-A$$@TXBNK0486-A","LAW")> 486-A</a> - Retention of special additional mortgage recording tax exemption for converted federal credit unions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK487$$@TXBNK0487","LAW")> 487</a> - Conversion of a credit union into a federal credit union.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK487-A$$@TXBNK0487-A","LAW")> 487-A</a> - Conversion of a credit union into a mutual savings bank.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_11:credit_unions.html
 
                                 ARTICLE XI
                                CREDIT UNIONS
  Section 450.   Incorporation; organization certificate.
          450-a. Designation of low income credit union.
          450-b. Designation of student branches.
          451.   Proposed bylaws.
          452.   When  corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to
                   commencing business.
          453.   Corporate credit unions.
          454.   General powers.
          455.   Trust powers.
          456.   Limitations upon powers.
          457.   Capital.
          458-a. Maintenance of reserves.
          459.   Allowance for loan loss.
          460.   Dividends to shareholders; conditions precedent.
          461.   Change of location; establishment of stations;  extension
                   or revival of corporate existence.
          462.   Foreign credit unions.
          463.   Exemptions and individual liability of shareholders.
          464.   Manner of withdrawal; expulsion or suspension of members;
                   effect upon liabilities to credit unions.
          465.   Withdrawal  of  shares after voting to liquidate; notices
                   to shareholders.
          466.   Meetings of shareholders; voting.
          467.   Qualifications and  disqualifications  of  directors  and
                   committee members.
          468.   Oaths of directors, officers and members of committees.
          469.   Vacancies; change in number of directors.
          470.   Powers   and   duties   of  directors;  not  entitled  to
                   compensation; disqualification of directors.
          471.   Duty of directors and officers.
          472.   Special duties of directors.
          473.   Loan officers, credit committee; duties.
          474.   Loan reports to directors.
          475.   Supervisory committee; powers and duties.
          476.   Officers; powers and duties.
          477.   Retirement  and  insurance  benefits  for  officers   and
                   employees.
          478.   Amendment of bylaws; approval of superintendent.
          479.   Credit union not liable for taxation.
          480.   Fiscal year.
          481.   Communications from department of financial services must
                   be  submitted  to  directors and supervisory committee,
                   and noted in the minutes.
          482.   Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
          483.   Penalty for loans to non-members; recovery.
          484.   Penalty for use of term "credit union".
          485.   Entries in books; preservation of records.
          486.   Conversion of a federal credit union into a state  credit
                   union.
          486-a. Retention  of  special  additional mortgage recording tax
                   exemption for converted federal credit unions.
          487.   Conversion of a credit union into a federal credit union.
          487-a. Conversion of a credit union into a mutual savings bank.


::: article_12-a:553_mutual_trust_investment_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12-A$$@TXBNK0A12-A","LAW")> Article 12-A</a> -  MUTUAL TRUST INVESTMENT COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK550$$@TXBNK0550","LAW")> 550</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK551$$@TXBNK0551","LAW")> 551</a> - Investment powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK552$$@TXBNK0552","LAW")> 552</a> - Accountability.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK553$$@TXBNK0553","LAW")> 553</a> - Investment by fiduciaries in shares.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_12-a:mutual_trust_investment_companies.html
 
                                ARTICLE XII-A
 
                      MUTUAL TRUST INVESTMENT COMPANIES
 
  Section 550. Incorporation; organization certificate.
          551. Investment powers.
          552. Accountability.
          553. Investment by fiduciaries in shares.


::: article_12-b:578_insurance_premium_finance_agencies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12-B$$@TXBNK0A12-B","LAW")> Article 12-B</a> -  INSURANCE PREMIUM FINANCE AGENCIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK554$$@TXBNK0554","LAW")> 554</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK555$$@TXBNK0555","LAW")> 555</a> - License.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK555-A$$@TXBNK0555-A","LAW")> 555-A</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK556$$@TXBNK0556","LAW")> 556</a> - Action by superintendent on application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK557$$@TXBNK0557","LAW")> 557</a> - License provisions and posting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK558$$@TXBNK0558","LAW")> 558</a> - Change of location.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK559$$@TXBNK0559","LAW")> 559</a> - Grounds for revocation of license; procedure.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK560$$@TXBNK0560","LAW")> 560</a> - Investigations and examinations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK561$$@TXBNK0561","LAW")> 561</a> - Regulations and rulings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK563$$@TXBNK0563","LAW")> 563</a> - Violations and penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK565$$@TXBNK0565","LAW")> 565</a> - Licensee's books and records; reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK566$$@TXBNK0566","LAW")> 566</a> - Insurance agents and brokers; acquisition by premium finance agencies of premium finance agreements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK567$$@TXBNK0567","LAW")> 567</a> - Form and content of premium finance agreements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK568$$@TXBNK0568","LAW")> 568</a> - Limitation on service and other charges.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK569$$@TXBNK0569","LAW")> 569</a> - Delinquency, collection and cancellation charges; attorney's fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK570$$@TXBNK0570","LAW")> 570</a> - Restrictions on premium finance agreements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK571$$@TXBNK0571","LAW")> 571</a> - Delivery of copy of premium finance agreement.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK572$$@TXBNK0572","LAW")> 572</a> - Notice of assignment; payments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK573$$@TXBNK0573","LAW")> 573</a> - Statement of account; receipts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK574$$@TXBNK0574","LAW")> 574</a> - Credit upon anticipation of payments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK575$$@TXBNK0575","LAW")> 575</a> - Refinancing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK576$$@TXBNK0576","LAW")> 576</a> - Cancellation of insurance contract upon default.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK577$$@TXBNK0577","LAW")> 577</a> - Interpretation of article.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK577-A$$@TXBNK0577-A","LAW")> 577-A</a> - Premium finance agreements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK578$$@TXBNK0578","LAW")> 578</a> - Severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_12-b:insurance_premium_finance_agencies.html
 
                                ARTICLE XII-B
 
                     INSURANCE PREMIUM FINANCE AGENCIES
 
  Section 554.   Definitions.
          555.   License.
          555-a. Changes in control.
          556.   Action by superintendent on application.
          557.   License provisions and posting.
          558.   Change of location.
          559.   Grounds for revocation of license; procedure.
          560.   Investigations and examinations.
          561.   Regulations and rulings.
          563.   Violations and penalties.
          565.   Licensee's books and records; reports.
          566.   Insurance  agents  and  brokers;  acquisition  by premium
                   finance agencies of premium finance agreements.
          567.   Form and content of premium finance agreements.
          568.   Limitation on service and other charges.
          569.   Delinquency,   collection   and   cancellation   charges;
                   attorney's fees.
          570.   Restrictions on premium finance agreements.
          571.   Delivery of copy of premium finance agreement.
          572.   Notice of assignment; payments.
          573.   Statement of account; receipts.
          574.   Credit upon anticipation of payments.
          575.   Refinancing.
          576.   Cancellation of insurance contract upon default.
          577.   Interpretation of article.
          577-a. Premium finance agreements.
          578.   Severability.


::: article_12-c:587_budget_planners.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12-C$$@TXBNK0A12-C","LAW")> Article 12-C</a> -  BUDGET PLANNERS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK579$$@TXBNK0579","LAW")> 579</a> - Doing business without license prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK580$$@TXBNK0580","LAW")> 580</a> - Application for license.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK581$$@TXBNK0581","LAW")> 581</a> - Conditions for issuance of a license; procedure where application denied.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK582$$@TXBNK0582","LAW")> 582</a> - License provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK583$$@TXBNK0583","LAW")> 583</a> - Changes in officers or directors of licensee.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK583-A$$@TXBNK0583-A","LAW")> 583-A</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK584$$@TXBNK0584","LAW")> 584</a> - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license; procedure.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK584-A$$@TXBNK0584-A","LAW")> 584-A</a> - Contracts with debtors; fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK584-B$$@TXBNK0584-B","LAW")> 584-B</a> - Prohibited activities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK585$$@TXBNK0585","LAW")> 585</a> - Superintendent authorized to examine.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK586$$@TXBNK0586","LAW")> 586</a> - Licensee's books and records; reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK587$$@TXBNK0587","LAW")> 587</a> - Authority of superintendent.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_12-c:budget_planners.html
 
                                ARTICLE 12-C
 
                               BUDGET PLANNERS
 
  Section 579.   Doing business without license prohibited.
          580.   Application for license.
          581.   Conditions  for  issuance  of  a license; procedure where
                   application denied.
          582.   License provisions.
          583.   Changes in officers or directors of licensee.
          583-a. Changes in control.
          584.   Grounds  for  suspension  or   revocation   of   license;
                   procedure.
          584-a. Contracts with debtors; fees.
          584-b. Prohibited activities.
          585.   Superintendent authorized to examine.
          586.   Licensee's books and records; reports.
          587.   Authority of superintendent.


::: article_12-d:599_licensed_mortgage_bankers.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12-D$$@TXBNK0A12-D","LAW")> Article 12-D</a> -  LICENSED MORTGAGE BANKERS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK589$$@TXBNK0589","LAW")> 589</a> - Declaration of policy.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK590$$@TXBNK0590","LAW")> 590</a> - Licensing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK590-A$$@TXBNK0590-A","LAW")> 590-A</a> - Junior mortgage loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK590-B$$@TXBNK0590-B","LAW")> 590-B</a> - Responsibilities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK591$$@TXBNK0591","LAW")> 591</a> - Application for a mortgage banker's license; fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK591-A$$@TXBNK0591-A","LAW")> 591-A</a> - Application to register as a mortgage broker; fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK592$$@TXBNK0592","LAW")> 592</a> - Application process to receive license to engage in the business of mortgage banking.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK592-A$$@TXBNK0592-A","LAW")> 592-A</a> - Application process to register as a mortgage broker.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK593$$@TXBNK0593","LAW")> 593</a> - License provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK593-A$$@TXBNK0593-A","LAW")> 593-A</a> - Registration provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK594$$@TXBNK0594","LAW")> 594</a> - Changes in officers and directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK594-B$$@TXBNK0594-B","LAW")> 594-B</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK595$$@TXBNK0595","LAW")> 595</a> - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license, or suspension or deletion of name from mortgage broker roll.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK595-A$$@TXBNK0595-A","LAW")> 595-A</a> - Regulation of mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers and exempt organizations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK595-B$$@TXBNK0595-B","LAW")> 595-B</a> - Regulation of mortgage loan servicers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK595-C$$@TXBNK0595-C","LAW")> 595-C</a> - Regulation of dealings of mortgage brokers and home improvement contractors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK596$$@TXBNK0596","LAW")> 596</a> - Superintendent authorized to examine; expenses.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK597$$@TXBNK0597","LAW")> 597</a> - Books and records; reports and electronic filing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK598$$@TXBNK0598","LAW")> 598</a> - Additional penalties for violation of this article; civil, criminal; liquidated damages.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599$$@TXBNK0599","LAW")> 599</a> - Separability of provisions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_12-d:licensed_mortgage_bankers.html
 
                                ARTICLE 12-D
                          LICENSED MORTGAGE BANKERS
  Section 589.   Declaration of policy.
          590.   Licensing.
          590-a. Junior mortgage loans.
          590-b. Responsibilities.
          591.   Application for a mortgage banker's license; fees.
          591-a. Application to register as a mortgage broker; fees.
          592.   Application  process  to receive license to engage in the
                   business of mortgage banking.
          592-a. Application process to register as a mortgage broker.
          593.   License provisions.
          593-a. Registration provisions.
          594.   Changes in officers and directors.
          594-b. Changes in control.
          595.   Grounds for  suspension  or  revocation  of  license,  or
                   suspension  or  deletion  of  name from mortgage broker
                   roll.
          595-a. Regulation of  mortgage  brokers,  mortgage  bankers  and
                   exempt organizations.
          595-b. Regulation of mortgage loan servicers.
          595-c. Regulation  of  dealings  of  mortgage  brokers  and home
                   improvement contractors.
          596.   Superintendent authorized to examine; expenses.
          597.   Books and records; reports and electronic filing.
          598.   Additional  penalties  for  violation  of  this  article;
                   civil, criminal; liquidated damages.
          599.   Separability of provisions.


::: article_12-e:599r_licensed_mortgage_loan_originators.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12-E$$@TXBNK0A12-E","LAW")> Article 12-E</a> -  LICENSED MORTGAGE LOAN ORIGINATORS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-A$$@TXBNK0599-A","LAW")> 599-A</a> - Legislative purpose.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-B$$@TXBNK0599-B","LAW")> 599-B</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-C$$@TXBNK0599-C","LAW")> 599-C</a> - License required.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-D$$@TXBNK0599-D","LAW")> 599-D</a> - State license application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-E$$@TXBNK0599-E","LAW")> 599-E</a> - Issuance of a license.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-F$$@TXBNK0599-F","LAW")> 599-F</a> - Pre-licensing educational requirements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-G$$@TXBNK0599-G","LAW")> 599-G</a> - Testing of mortgage loan originators.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-H$$@TXBNK0599-H","LAW")> 599-H</a> - Mortgage call reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-I$$@TXBNK0599-I","LAW")> 599-I</a> - Standards for license renewal; inactive status.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-J$$@TXBNK0599-J","LAW")> 599-J</a> - Continuing education for mortgage loan originators.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-K$$@TXBNK0599-K","LAW")> 599-K</a> - Required surety bond.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-L$$@TXBNK0599-L","LAW")> 599-L</a> - Reports by the superintendent; permissive challenges by licensees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-M$$@TXBNK0599-M","LAW")> 599-M</a> - Required records and reporting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-N$$@TXBNK0599-N","LAW")> 599-N</a> - Enforcement authority; grounds for suspension or revocation of a mortgage loan originator license; restitution.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-O$$@TXBNK0599-O","LAW")> 599-O</a> - Rules, regulations and examinations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-P$$@TXBNK0599-P","LAW")> 599-P</a> - Unique identifier.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-Q$$@TXBNK0599-Q","LAW")> 599-Q</a> - Confidentiality.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK599-R$$@TXBNK0599-R","LAW")> 599-R</a> - Construction.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_12-e:licensed_mortgage_loan_originators.html
 
                                ARTICLE 12-E
                     LICENSED MORTGAGE LOAN ORIGINATORS
  Section 599-a.  Legislative purpose.
          599-b.  Definitions.
          599-c.  License required.
          599-d.  State license application.
          599-e.  Issuance of a license.
          599-f.  Pre-licensing educational requirements.
          599-g.  Testing of mortgage loan originators.
          599-h.  Mortgage call reports.
          599-i.  Standards for license renewal; inactive status.
          599-j.  Continuing education for mortgage loan originators.
          599-k.  Required surety bond.
          599-l.  Reports  by the superintendent; permissive challenges by
                    licensees.
          599-m.  Required records and reporting.
          599-n.  Enforcement  authority;  grounds   for   suspension   or
                    revocation  of  a  mortgage  loan  originator license;
                    restitution.
          599-o.  Rules, regulations and examinations.
          599-p.  Unique identifier.
          599-q.  Confidentiality.
          599-r.  Construction.


::: article_12:520.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA12$$@TXBNK0A12","LAW")> Article 12</a> -
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK507$$@TXBNK0507","LAW")> 507</a> - Limited liability investment companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK508$$@TXBNK0508","LAW")> 508</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK509$$@TXBNK0509","LAW")> 509</a> - Restrictions on powers of investment companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK510$$@TXBNK0510","LAW")> 510</a> - Restrictions as to entries in books.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK511$$@TXBNK0511","LAW")> 511</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK512$$@TXBNK0512","LAW")> 512</a> - Communications from department of financial services must be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK513$$@TXBNK0513","LAW")> 513</a> - Reports to superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK514$$@TXBNK0514","LAW")> 514</a> - Liability of investment company for assessments by superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK515$$@TXBNK0515","LAW")> 515</a> - Preservation of records of investment company.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK516$$@TXBNK0516","LAW")> 516</a> - Restrictions on officers, directors and other employees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK517$$@TXBNK0517","LAW")> 517</a> - How net earnings credited for dividend purposes, credits to surplus fund and to undivided profits, dividends to stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK518$$@TXBNK0518","LAW")> 518</a> - Payment of claims by investment companies where adverse claim is asserted; effect of claims or advices originating in, and statutes, rules or regulati
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK519$$@TXBNK0519","LAW")> 519</a> - Acquisition of control of investment companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK520$$@TXBNK0520","LAW")> 520</a> - Savings clause.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-a:639_licensees_superintendents_taking_possession_conservation_liquidation.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13-A$$@TXBNK0A13-A","LAW")> Article 13-A</a> -  LICENSEES: SUPERINTENDENT'S TAKING POSSESSION: CONSERVATION: LIQUIDATION
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK635$$@TXBNK0635","LAW")> 635</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK636$$@TXBNK0636","LAW")> 636</a> - When superintendent may take possession of license; when possession may be surrendered.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK637$$@TXBNK0637","LAW")> 637</a> - Powers of superintendent in possession; application for receiver.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK638$$@TXBNK0638","LAW")> 638</a> - Manner and time within which taking possession may be tested.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK639$$@TXBNK0639","LAW")> 639</a> - Severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-a:licensees_superintendents_taking_possession_conservation_liquidation.html
 
                               ARTICLE XIII-A
 
               LICENSEES: SUPERINTENDENT'S TAKING POSSESSION:
                          CONSERVATION: LIQUIDATION
 
  Section 635. Definitions.
          636. When  superintendent  may  take possession of license; when
                 possession may be surrendered.
          637. Powers of superintendent  in  possession;  application  for
                 receiver.
          638. Manner  and  time  within  which  taking  possession may be
                 tested.
          639. Severability.


::: article_13-b:652b_transmitters_of_money.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13-B$$@TXBNK0A13-B","LAW")> Article 13-B</a> -  TRANSMITTERS OF MONEY
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK640$$@TXBNK0640","LAW")> 640</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK641$$@TXBNK0641","LAW")> 641</a> - License.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK642$$@TXBNK0642","LAW")> 642</a> - Action by superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK643$$@TXBNK0643","LAW")> 643</a> - Bond or securities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK645$$@TXBNK0645","LAW")> 645</a> - Assignment of claims to superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK646$$@TXBNK0646","LAW")> 646</a> - Investigations, hearings and reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK647$$@TXBNK0647","LAW")> 647</a> - Judicial review.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK648$$@TXBNK0648","LAW")> 648</a> - Agents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK649$$@TXBNK0649","LAW")> 649</a> - Rules and regulations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK650$$@TXBNK0650","LAW")> 650</a> - Violations and penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK651$$@TXBNK0651","LAW")> 651</a> - Investments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK651-A$$@TXBNK0651-A","LAW")> 651-A</a> - Remittances.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK651-B$$@TXBNK0651-B","LAW")> 651-B</a> - Maintenance of books and records by agents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK652$$@TXBNK0652","LAW")> 652</a> - Severability.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK652-A$$@TXBNK0652-A","LAW")> 652-A</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK652-B$$@TXBNK0652-B","LAW")> 652-B</a> - Tying arrangements.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-b:transmitters_of_money.html
 
                               ARTICLE XIII-B
 
                            TRANSMITTERS OF MONEY
 
  Section 640.   Definitions.
          641.   License.
          642.   Action by superintendent.
          643.   Bond or securities.
          645.   Assignment of claims to superintendent.
          646.   Investigations, hearings and reports.
          647.   Judicial review.
          648.   Agents.
          649.   Rules and regulations.
          650.   Violations and penalties.
          651.   Investments.
          651-a. Remittances.
          651-b. Maintenance of books and records by agents.
          652.   Severability.
          652-a. Changes in control.
          652-b. Tying arrangements.


::: article_13-c:659_state_transmitter_of_money_insurance_fund.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13-C$$@TXBNK0A13-C","LAW")> Article 13-C</a> -  STATE TRANSMITTER OF MONEY INSURANCE FUND
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK653$$@TXBNK0653","LAW")> 653</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK654$$@TXBNK0654","LAW")> 654</a> - Purpose of the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK655$$@TXBNK0655","LAW")> 655</a> - Maximum amount of insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK656$$@TXBNK0656","LAW")> 656</a> - Claims against the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK657$$@TXBNK0657","LAW")> 657</a> - Payments to the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK658$$@TXBNK0658","LAW")> 658</a> - General powers of the fund; administration of the fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK659$$@TXBNK0659","LAW")> 659</a> - Rules and regulations.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-c:state_transmitter_of_money_insurance_fund.html
 
                               ARTICLE XIII-C
 
                  STATE TRANSMITTER OF MONEY INSURANCE FUND
 
  Section 653. Definitions.
          654. Purpose of the fund.
          655. Maximum amount of insurance.
          656. Claims against the fund.
          657. Payments to the fund.
          658. General powers of the fund; administration of the fund.
          659. Rules and regulations.


::: article_13-d:674a_misconduct_relating_to_banking_organizations.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13-D$$@TXBNK0A13-D","LAW")> Article 13-D</a> -  MISCONDUCT RELATING TO BANKING ORGANIZATIONS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK660$$@TXBNK0660","LAW")> 660</a> - Misconduct of officers, directors, trustees, or employees of banking corporations and of private bankers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK661$$@TXBNK0661","LAW")> 661</a> - Officer or agent of banking corporation or a private banker making guaranty or endorsement beyond the legal limit.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK662$$@TXBNK0662","LAW")> 662</a> - Bank officer or employee overdrawing his account or asking for or receiving commissions or gratuities from persons procuring loans or making overdraft
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK663$$@TXBNK0663","LAW")> 663</a> - Receiving deposits in insolvent bank.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK664$$@TXBNK0664","LAW")> 664</a> - Unlawful investments by officers of mutual savings banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK665$$@TXBNK0665","LAW")> 665</a> - Misconduct by directors of banking corporations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK666-A$$@TXBNK0666-A","LAW")> 666-A</a> - Loans to be guaranteed by New York state higher education assistance corporation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK668$$@TXBNK0668","LAW")> 668</a> - Use of checks with certain photographs or drawings reproduced thereon prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK669$$@TXBNK0669","LAW")> 669</a> - Unauthorized use of the term "bank" or "trust company."
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK671$$@TXBNK0671","LAW")> 671</a> - False statements or rumors as to banking institutions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK672$$@TXBNK0672","LAW")> 672</a> - Falsification of books, reports or statements of private bankers or corporations subject to the banking law.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK673$$@TXBNK0673","LAW")> 673</a> - Abstraction or misappropriation of money, funds or property, or misapplication of credit of private bankers or corporations to which the banking law i
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK674$$@TXBNK0674","LAW")> 674</a> - Presumption of knowledge of corporate condition and business and of assent thereto by directors; definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK674-A$$@TXBNK0674-A","LAW")> 674-A</a> - Unlawful undertakings.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-d:misconduct_relating_to_banking_organizations.html
 
                               ARTICLE XIII-D
 
                MISCONDUCT RELATING TO BANKING ORGANIZATIONS
 
  Section 660.   Misconduct  of officers, directors, trustees or employees
                   of banking corporations and of private bankers.
          661.   Officer or agent of  banking  corporation  or  a  private
                   banker  making guaranty or endorsement beyond the legal
                   limit.
          662.   Bank officer  or  employee  overdrawing  his  account  or
                   asking  for or receiving commissions or gratuities from
                   persons procuring loans or making overdrafts  of  their
                   accounts.
          663.   Receiving deposits in insolvent bank.
          664.   Unlawful investments by officers of mutual savings banks.
          665.   Misconduct by directors of banking corporations.
          666-a. Loans to be guaranteed by New York state higher education
                   assistance corporation.
          668.   Use  of  checks  with  certain  photographs  or  drawings
                   reproduced thereon prohibited.
          669.   Unauthorized use of the term "bank" or "trust company."
          671.   False statements or rumors as to banking institutions.
          672.   Falsification of books, reports or statements of  private
                   bankers or corporations subject to the banking law.
          673.   Abstraction   or  misappropriation  of  money,  funds  or
                   property,  or  misapplication  of  credit  of   private
                   bankers  or  corporations  to  which the banking law is
                   applicable, by an officer, director, trustee,  employee
                   or agent thereof.
          674.   Presumption  of  knowledge  of  corporate  condition  and
                   business  and   of   assent   thereto   by   directors;
                   definitions.
          674-a. Unlawful undertakings.


::: article_13-e:678_joint_deposits_and_shares_unauthorized_withdrawals_withdrawals_from_decedents_accounts.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13-E$$@TXBNK0A13-E","LAW")> Article 13-E</a> -  JOINT DEPOSITS AND SHARES; Unauthorized Withdrawals; Withdrawals From Decedents' Accounts
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK675$$@TXBNK0675","LAW")> 675</a> - Joint deposits and shares; ownership and payment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK676$$@TXBNK0676","LAW")> 676</a> - Unauthorized withdrawals from savings or time deposit accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK677$$@TXBNK0677","LAW")> 677</a> - Decedents' accounts, withdrawals by authorized persons.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK678$$@TXBNK0678","LAW")> 678</a> - Accounts for convenience only.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13-e:joint_deposits_and_shares_unauthorized_withdrawals_withdrawals_from_decedents_accounts.html
 
                               ARTICLE XIII-E
 
            JOINT DEPOSITS AND SHARES; Unauthorized Withdrawals;
                    Withdrawals From Decedents' Accounts
 
  Section 675. Joint deposits and shares; ownership and payment.
          676. Unauthorized  withdrawals  from  savings  or  time  deposit
                 accounts.
          677. Decedents' accounts, withdrawals by authorized persons.
          678. Accounts for convenience only.


::: article_13:634_merger_voluntary_dissolution_superintendents_taking_possession_reorganization_liquidation.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA13$$@TXBNK0A13","LAW")> Article 13</a> -  MERGER; VOLUNTARY DISSOLUTION; SUPERINTENDENT'S TAKING POSSESSION; REORGANIZATION; LIQUIDATION
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK600$$@TXBNK0600","LAW")> 600</a> - Merger; when authorized.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK601$$@TXBNK0601","LAW")> 601</a> - Merger agreement; authorization; approval; filing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK601-A$$@TXBNK0601-A","LAW")> 601-A</a> - Purchase of assets.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK601-B$$@TXBNK0601-B","LAW")> 601-B</a> - Approval or disapproval of merger or purchase of assets.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK601-C$$@TXBNK0601-C","LAW")> 601-C</a> - Sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of property, rights, privileges and franchises.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK602$$@TXBNK0602","LAW")> 602</a> - Effect of merger.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK603$$@TXBNK0603","LAW")> 603</a> - Issuance of new certificates of stock or other consideration.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK604$$@TXBNK0604","LAW")> 604</a> - Rights of dissenting stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK604-A$$@TXBNK0604-A","LAW")> 604-A</a> - Transfer of fiduciary relationships.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK605$$@TXBNK0605","LAW")> 605</a> - Voluntary liquidation; sale of assets; forfeiture of charter by non-user.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK605-A$$@TXBNK0605-A","LAW")> 605-A</a> - Transfer of deposit liabilities of bank or trust company; sale or pledge of assets to facilitate such transfer.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK606$$@TXBNK0606","LAW")> 606</a> - When superintendent may take possession of banking organization; when possession may be surrendered.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK607$$@TXBNK0607","LAW")> 607</a> - Manner and time within which taking possession may be tested.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK609$$@TXBNK0609","LAW")> 609</a> - Resumption of business by bank, trust company or industrial bank; retirement of certificates; applicability to stock-form savings banks and stock-form
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK610$$@TXBNK0610","LAW")> 610</a> - Resumption of business in accordance with plan of reorganization.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK611$$@TXBNK0611","LAW")> 611</a> - Special deputies; assistants; counsel and other employees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK611-A$$@TXBNK0611-A","LAW")> 611-A</a> - Appointment of single judge.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK612$$@TXBNK0612","LAW")> 612</a> - Certificates to be recorded and received in evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK612-A$$@TXBNK0612-A","LAW")> 612-A</a> - Payment of wages.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK613$$@TXBNK0613","LAW")> 613</a> - Payment by superintendent of expenses of liquidation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK614$$@TXBNK0614","LAW")> 614</a> - Obtaining possession of pleadings, et cetera, in actions against which attorneys' liens are asserted.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK615$$@TXBNK0615","LAW")> 615</a> - On taking possession, superintendent shall notify those holding assets; effect of notification; turnover of assets and payment of debts owed to the ba
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK616$$@TXBNK0616","LAW")> 616</a> - Inventory of assets; where filed.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK617$$@TXBNK0617","LAW")> 617</a> - Disposition of property held as bailee, or depositary; opening of safe deposit boxes; disposal of contents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK618$$@TXBNK0618","LAW")> 618</a> - Liquidation and conservation of assets; compromising debts and claims; deposit of moneys collected; preference; superintendent, as liquidator, authori
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK618-A$$@TXBNK0618-A","LAW")> 618-A</a> - Repudiation of contracts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK619$$@TXBNK0619","LAW")> 619</a> - Prosecution and defense of actions; actions preferred; limitations; power to execute instruments; exemption from filing and other fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK620$$@TXBNK0620","LAW")> 620</a> - Notice to creditors to make proof of claims; form of claims; claims for priority of payment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK620-A$$@TXBNK0620-A","LAW")> 620-A</a> - Certain claims shall not be accepted.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK622$$@TXBNK0622","LAW")> 622</a> - List of claims duly presented; filing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK623$$@TXBNK0623","LAW")> 623</a> - Filing objections to claims presented or listed; procedure upon claim under objection.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK624$$@TXBNK0624","LAW")> 624</a> - Acceptance and rejection of claims and accounts; filing of list thereof; secured claims and accounts; determination of priorities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK625$$@TXBNK0625","LAW")> 625</a> - Effect of accepting claims and accounts; limitation upon actions to establish claims and accounts; necessary allegations; effect of judgment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK626$$@TXBNK0626","LAW")> 626</a> - Judgments recovered shall not be liens.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK627$$@TXBNK0627","LAW")> 627</a> - Dividends to creditors; distributions to stockholders; dissolution; destruction of documents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK628$$@TXBNK0628","LAW")> 628</a> - Payment of dividends when deposits have been made available by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK629$$@TXBNK0629","LAW")> 629</a> - Payment of dividends to minors, trustees or joint depositors; payment of dividends where adverse claim is asserted; interpleader in certain actions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK630$$@TXBNK0630","LAW")> 630</a> - Claims of shareholders and members of credit unions and savings and loan associations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK631$$@TXBNK0631","LAW")> 631</a> - Actions against directors, trustees, managers or officers for violation of their official duties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK633$$@TXBNK0633","LAW")> 633</a> - Service of notice or process during time of war.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK634$$@TXBNK0634","LAW")> 634</a> - Power to appoint regulator or insurer as receiver; additional powers.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_13:merger_voluntary_dissolution_superintendents_taking_possession_reorganization_liquidation.html
 
                                ARTICLE XIII
           MERGER; VOLUNTARY DISSOLUTION; SUPERINTENDENT'S TAKING
                   POSSESSION; REORGANIZATION; LIQUIDATION
  Section 600.   Merger; when authorized.
          601.   Merger agreement; authorization; approval; filing.
          601-a. Purchase of assets.
          601-b. Approval or disapproval of merger or purchase of assets.
          601-c. Sale,  lease,  exchange or other disposition of property,
                   rights, privileges and franchises.
          602.   Effect of merger.
          603.   Issuance  of  new  certificates   of   stock   or   other
                   consideration.
          604.   Rights of dissenting stockholders.
          604-a. Transfer of fiduciary relationships.
          605.   Voluntary  liquidation;  sale  of  assets;  forfeiture of
                   charter by non-user.
          605-a. Transfer of deposit liabilities of bank or trust company;
                   sale or pledge of assets to facilitate such transfer.
          606.   When  superintendent  may  take  possession  of   banking
                   organization; when possession may be surrendered.
          607.   Manner  and  time  within  which taking possession may be
                   tested.
          609.   Resumption  of  business  by  bank,  trust   company   or
                   industrial    bank;    retirement    of   certificates;
                   applicability   to   stock-form   savings   banks   and
                   stock-form savings and loan associations.
          610.   Resumption   of  business  in  accordance  with  plan  of
                   reorganization.
          611.   Special   deputies;   assistants;   counsel   and   other
                   employees.
          611-a. Appointment of single judge.
          612.   Certificates to be recorded and received in evidence.
          612-a. Payment of wages.
          613.   Payment by superintendent of expenses of liquidation.
          614.   Obtaining  possession of pleadings, et cetera, in actions
                   against which attorneys' liens are asserted.
          615.   On taking possession, superintendent shall  notify  those
                   holding  assets;  effect  of  notification; turnover of
                   assets  and  payment  of  debts  owed  to  the  banking
                   organization.
          616.   Inventory of assets; where filed.
          617.   Disposition  of  property  held as bailee, or depositary;
                   opening of safe deposit boxes; disposal of contents.
          618.   Liquidation  and  conservation  of  assets;  compromising
                   debts   and   claims;   deposit  of  moneys  collected;
                   preference; superintendent, as  liquidator,  authorized
                   to borrow on and pledge assets of banks.
          618-a. Repudiation of contracts.
          619.   Prosecution  and  defense  of actions; actions preferred;
                   limitations; power to  execute  instruments;  exemption
                   from filing and other fees.
          620.   Notice  to  creditors  to  make  proof of claims; form of
                   claims; claims for priority of payment.
          620-a. Certain claims shall not be accepted.
          622.   List of claims duly presented; filing.
          623.   Filing  objections  to  claims   presented   or   listed;
                   procedure upon claim under objection.
          624.   Acceptance  and  rejection of claims and accounts; filing
                   of  list  thereof;   secured   claims   and   accounts;
                   determination of priorities.
          625.   Effect  of accepting claims and accounts; limitation upon
                   actions to establish  claims  and  accounts;  necessary
                   allegations; effect of judgment.
          626.   Judgments recovered shall not be liens.
          627.   Dividends  to  creditors;  distributions to stockholders;
                   dissolution; destruction of documents.
          628.   Payment  of  dividends  when  deposits  have  been   made
                   available by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
          629.   Payment   of  dividends  to  minors,  trustees  or  joint
                   depositors; payment of dividends where adverse claim is
                   asserted; interpleader in certain actions.
          630.   Claims of shareholders and members of credit  unions  and
                   savings and loan associations.
          631.   Actions against directors, trustees, managers or officers
                   for violation of their official duties.
          633.   Service of notice or process during time of war.
          634.   Power  to  appoint  regulator  or  insurer  as  receiver;
                   additional powers.


::: article_14:702_laws_repealed_construction_when_to_take_effect.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA14$$@TXBNK0A14","LAW")> Article 14</a> -  Laws Repealed; Construction; When to Take Effect.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK700$$@TXBNK0700","LAW")> 700</a> - Laws repealed.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK701$$@TXBNK0701","LAW")> 701</a> - Construction.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK702$$@TXBNK0702","LAW")> 702</a> - When to take effect.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_14:laws_repealed_construction_when_to_take_effect.html
 
                                 ARTICLE XIV
 
              Laws Repealed; Construction; When to Take Effect.
 
  Section 700. Laws repealed.
          701. Construction.
          702. When to take effect.


::: article_15:general_provisions_applicable_to_banking_stock_corporations_limited_liability_investment_companies_and_limited_liability_trust_companies.html
 
                                 ARTICLE XV
 
        General Provisions Applicable to Banking Stock Corporations,
                 Limited Liability Investment Companies, and
                      Limited Liability Trust Companies
 
  Title  1.   Definitions; Application; Certificates; Miscellaneous.
         2.   Corporate powers.
         3.   Corporate name.
         4.   Formation of corporations.
         5.   Corporate finance.
         5-A. Limited  liability  investment  company or limited liability
                trust company finance.
         6.   Stockholders.
         6-A. Membership in a limited liability investment  company  or  a
                limited liability trust company.
         7.   Directors and officers.
         8.   Amendments and changes.


::: article_16:9019_general_provisions_applicable_to_banking_nonstock_corporations.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA16$$@TXBNK0A16","LAW")> Article 16</a> -  General Provisions Applicable to Banking Non-Stock Corporations
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9001$$@TXBNK09001","LAW")> 9001</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9001-A$$@TXBNK09001-A","LAW")> 9001-A</a> - Fingerprints.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9002$$@TXBNK09002","LAW")> 9002</a> - Application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9003$$@TXBNK09003","LAW")> 9003</a> - Certificates; requirements, signing, filing, effectiveness.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9004$$@TXBNK09004","LAW")> 9004</a> - Certificates; corrections.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9005$$@TXBNK09005","LAW")> 9005</a> - Nonexclusivity of statutory provisions for indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9006$$@TXBNK09006","LAW")> 9006</a> - Authorization for indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9007$$@TXBNK09007","LAW")> 9007</a> - Payment of indemnification other than by court award.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9008$$@TXBNK09008","LAW")> 9008</a> - Indemnification of directors and officers by a court.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9009$$@TXBNK09009","LAW")> 9009</a> - Other provisions affecting indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9010-A$$@TXBNK09010-A","LAW")> 9010-A</a> - Insurance for indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9011$$@TXBNK09011","LAW")> 9011</a> - Certificates as evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9012$$@TXBNK09012","LAW")> 9012</a> - Corporate seal as evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9013$$@TXBNK09013","LAW")> 9013</a> - When notice or lapse of time unnecessary; notices dispensed with when delivery is prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9014$$@TXBNK09014","LAW")> 9014</a> - Corporate name; general.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9015$$@TXBNK09015","LAW")> 9015</a> - Corporate name; exceptions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9016$$@TXBNK09016","LAW")> 9016</a> - Change of name.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9017$$@TXBNK09017","LAW")> 9017</a> - Place and time of meetings of the board; presence at.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9018$$@TXBNK09018","LAW")> 9018</a> - Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9019$$@TXBNK09019","LAW")> 9019</a> - Certain provisions relating to the conversion of non-stock savings banks and savings and loan associations to stock form.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_16:general_provisions_applicable_to_banking_nonstock_corporations.html
 
                                 ARTICLE XVI
 
                        General Provisions Applicable
                      to Banking Non-Stock Corporations
 
  Section 9001.   Definitions.
          9001-a. Fingerprints.
          9002.   Application.
          9003.   Certificates;     requirements,     signing,     filing,
                    effectiveness.
          9004.   Certificates; corrections.
          9005.   Nonexclusivity    of    statutory     provisions     for
                    indemnification of directors and officers.
          9006.   Authorization   for  indemnification  of  directors  and
                    officers.
          9007.   Payment of indemnification other than by court award.
          9008.   Indemnification of directors and officers by a court.
          9009.   Other provisions affecting indemnification of  directors
                    and officers.
          9010-a. Insurance for indemnification of directors and officers.
          9011.   Certificates as evidence.
          9012.   Corporate seal as evidence.
          9013.   When  notice  or  lapse  of  time  unnecessary;  notices
                    dispensed with when delivery is prohibited.
          9014.   Corporate name; general.
          9015.   Corporate name; exceptions.
          9016.   Change of name.
          9017.   Place and time of meetings of the board; presence at.
          9018.   Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability.
          9019.   Certain  provisions  relating  to  the   conversion   of
                    non-stock   savings   banks   and   savings  and  loan
                    associations to stock form.


::: article_1:9u_short_title_definitions_miscellaneous_provisions.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA1$$@TXBNK0A1","LAW")> Article 1</a> -  SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1$$@TXBNK01","LAW")> 1</a> - Short title.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK2$$@TXBNK02","LAW")> 2</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK2-A$$@TXBNK02-A","LAW")> 2-A</a> - Limited liability investment company; definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK2-B$$@TXBNK02-B","LAW")> 2-B</a> - Limited liability trust companies; definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4$$@TXBNK04","LAW")> 4</a> - Information to be given to social services officials, state department of social services, state department of mental hygiene, the mental hygiene lega
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4-A$$@TXBNK04-A","LAW")> 4-A</a> - Banks to display signs.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4-B$$@TXBNK04-B","LAW")> 4-B</a> - Advertising.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4-C$$@TXBNK04-C","LAW")> 4-C</a> - Exemptions from certain provisions of chapter.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5$$@TXBNK05","LAW")> 5</a> - Loans pursuant to the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944."
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6$$@TXBNK06","LAW")> 6</a> - Investment in obligations of housing corporations indirectly guaranteed pursuant to the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944".
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-A$$@TXBNK06-A","LAW")> 6-A</a> - Investment in obligations of certain persons sixty-five years of age or over incurred to satisfy real property tax indebtedness.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-C$$@TXBNK06-C","LAW")> 6-C</a> - Application forms to be made available; certain cases.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-D$$@TXBNK06-D","LAW")> 6-D</a> - Requirement to state in writing reason for denial of mortgage loan.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-E$$@TXBNK06-E","LAW")> 6-E</a> - Graduated payment mortgages authorized.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-F$$@TXBNK06-F","LAW")> 6-F</a> - Alternative mortgage instruments made by banks, trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-G$$@TXBNK06-G","LAW")> 6-G</a> - Override of certain provisions of United States Public Law 97-320.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-H$$@TXBNK06-H","LAW")> 6-H</a> - Reverse mortgage loans authorized.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-I$$@TXBNK06-I","LAW")> 6-I</a> - Mortgage loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-J$$@TXBNK06-J","LAW")> 6-J</a> - Proof of insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-K$$@TXBNK06-K","LAW")> 6-K</a> - Real property insurance escrow accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-L$$@TXBNK06-L","LAW")> 6-L</a> - High-cost home loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6-M$$@TXBNK06-M","LAW")> 6-M</a> - Subprime home loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7$$@TXBNK07","LAW")> 7</a> - Payment of dividends or interest upon unclaimed deposits or shares; limitation of charges in connection with savings accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8$$@TXBNK08","LAW")> 8</a> - Deposits by custodian designated by administrator of veterans' affairs, or by person certified by social security administration.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9$$@TXBNK09","LAW")> 9</a> - Checks drawn against corporate funds or payable to corporations; no notice of defense against or claim to check.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-A$$@TXBNK09-A","LAW")> 9-A</a> - Defense of ultra vires.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-B$$@TXBNK09-B","LAW")> 9-B</a> - Actions or special proceedings by superintendent or attorney-general.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-C$$@TXBNK09-C","LAW")> 9-C</a> - Superintendent's or attorney-general's action for judicial dissolution.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-D$$@TXBNK09-D","LAW")> 9-D</a> - Enforcement of section two hundred ninety-six-a of the executive law.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-F$$@TXBNK09-F","LAW")> 9-F</a> - Geographic discrimination in making mortgage loans prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-G$$@TXBNK09-G","LAW")> 9-G</a> - Right of set off.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-H$$@TXBNK09-H","LAW")> 9-H</a> - Imposition of service charges prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-I$$@TXBNK09-I","LAW")> 9-I</a> - Close-out fees prohibited in certain cases.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-I*2$$@TXBNK09-I*2","LAW")> 9-I*2</a> - Prohibition on depositor of early withdrawal penalty in certain cases.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-J$$@TXBNK09-J","LAW")> 9-J</a> - Disposal of records; customer accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-K$$@TXBNK09-K","LAW")> 9-K</a> - Sale of education loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-M$$@TXBNK09-M","LAW")> 9-M</a> - Return of checks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-N$$@TXBNK09-N","LAW")> 9-N</a> - Trust accounts; address of beneficiary.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-O$$@TXBNK09-O","LAW")> 9-O</a> - Mortgage loans; disclosure form.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-P$$@TXBNK09-P","LAW")> 9-P</a> - Acceptance of certain checks for deposit.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-R$$@TXBNK09-R","LAW")> 9-R</a> - Geographic restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-S$$@TXBNK09-S","LAW")> 9-S</a> - Preauthorized electronic fund transfers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-T$$@TXBNK09-T","LAW")> 9-T</a> - Unsolicited mail-loan checks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK9-U$$@TXBNK09-U","LAW")> 9-U</a> - ATM transactions by persons using foreign bank accounts.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_1:short_title_definitions_miscellaneous_provisions.html
 
                                 ARTICLE I.
             SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
  Section 1.     Short title.
          2.     Definitions.
          2-a.   Limited liability investment company; definitions.
          2-b.   Limited liability trust companies; definitions.
          4.     Information  to  be  given  to social services officials,
                   state department of social services,  state  department
                   of  mental  hygiene,  the mental hygiene legal service,
                   representatives  of  boards  of   child   welfare   and
                   children's court by banking organizations.
          4-a.   Banks to display signs.
          4-b.   Advertising.
          4-c.   Exemptions from certain provisions of chapter.
          5.     Loans  pursuant  to the "Servicemen's Readjustment Act of
                   1944."
          6.     Investment  in  obligations   of   housing   corporations
                   indirectly  guaranteed  pursuant  to  the "Servicemen's
                   Readjustment Act of 1944".
          6-a.   Investment in obligations of certain  persons  sixty-five
                   years  of age or over incurred to satisfy real property
                   tax indebtedness.
          6-c.   Application forms to be made available; certain cases.
          6-d.   Requirement to state in  writing  reason  for  denial  of
                   mortgage loan.
          6-e.   Graduated payment mortgages authorized.
          6-f.   Alternative  mortgage  instruments  made  by banks, trust
                   companies, savings banks, savings and loan associations
                   and credit unions.
          6-g.   Override of certain provisions of  United  States  Public
                   Law 97-320.
          6-h.   Reverse mortgage loans authorized.
          6-i.   Mortgage loans.
          6-j.   Proof of insurance.
          6-k.   Real property insurance escrow accounts.
          6-l.   High-cost home loans.
          6-m.   Subprime home loans.
          7.     Payment  of dividends or interest upon unclaimed deposits
                   or shares; limitation of  charges  in  connection  with
                   saving accounts.
          8.     Deposits  by  custodian  designated  by  administrator of
                   veterans' affairs, or by  person  certified  by  social
                   security administration.
          9.     Checks  drawn  against  corporate  funds  or  payable  to
                   corporations; no notice of defense against or claim  to
                   check.
          9-a.   Defense of ultra vires.
          9-b.   Actions  or  special  proceedings  by  superintendent  or
                   attorney-general.
          9-c.   Superintendent's   or   attorney-general's   action   for
                   judicial dissolution.
          9-d.   Enforcement  of  section  two hundred ninety-six-a of the
                   executive law.
          9-f.   Geographic  discrimination  in  making   mortgage   loans
                   prohibited.
          9-g.   Right of set off.
          9-h.   Imposition of service charges prohibited.
          9-i.   Close-out fees prohibited in certain cases.
          9-i*2. Prohibition  on  depositor of early withdrawal penalty in
                   certain cases.
          9-j.   Disposal of records; customer accounts.
          9-k.   Sale of education loans.
          9-m.   Return of checks.
          9-n.   Trust accounts; address of beneficiary.
          9-o.   Mortgage loans; disclosure form.
          9-p.   Acceptance of certain checks for deposit.
          9-r.   Geographic restrictions.
          9-s.   Preauthorized electronic fund transfers.
          9-t.   Unsolicited mail-loan checks.
          9-u.   ATM transactions by persons using foreign bank accounts.


::: article_2-aa:75o_atm_safety_act.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA2-AA$$@TXBNK0A2-AA","LAW")> Article 2-AA</a> -  ATM SAFETY ACT
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-A$$@TXBNK075-A","LAW")> 75-A</a> - Legislative intent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-B$$@TXBNK075-B","LAW")> 75-B</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-C$$@TXBNK075-C","LAW")> 75-C</a> - Security measures.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-D$$@TXBNK075-D","LAW")> 75-D</a> - List of facilities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-E$$@TXBNK075-E","LAW")> 75-E</a> - Consumer safety information.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-F$$@TXBNK075-F","LAW")> 75-F</a> - Enforcement and statistics.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-G$$@TXBNK075-G","LAW")> 75-G</a> - Report of compliance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-H$$@TXBNK075-H","LAW")> 75-H</a> - Compliance with local building code and all other applicable provisions of law.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-I$$@TXBNK075-I","LAW")> 75-I</a> - Facilities not subject to this article.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-J$$@TXBNK075-J","LAW")> 75-J</a> - Civil penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-K$$@TXBNK075-K","LAW")> 75-K</a> - Collection of penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-L$$@TXBNK075-L","LAW")> 75-L</a> - Preemption.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-M$$@TXBNK075-M","LAW")> 75-M</a> - Variances and exemptions from automated teller machine security measures.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-N$$@TXBNK075-N","LAW")> 75-N</a> - Rules and regulations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK75-O$$@TXBNK075-O","LAW")> 75-O</a> - Severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_2-aa:atm_safety_act.html
 
                                ARTICLE II-AA
                               ATM SAFETY ACT
 
  Section 75-a.  Legislative intent.
          75-b.  Definitions.
          75-c.  Security measures.
          75-d.  List of facilities.
          75-e.  Consumer safety information.
          75-f.  Enforcement and statistics.
          75-g.  Report of compliance.
          75-h.  Compliance   with  local  building  code  and  all  other
                   applicable provisions of law.
          75-i.  Facilities not subject to this article.
          75-j.  Civil penalties.
          75-k.  Collection of penalties.
          75-l.  Preemption.
          75-m.  Variances and exemptions from  automated  teller  machine
                   security measures.
          75-n.  Rules and regulations.
          75-o.  Severability.


::: article_2-b:80_financial_frauds.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA2-B$$@TXBNK0A2-B","LAW")> Article 2-B</a> -  FINANCIAL FRAUDS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK76$$@TXBNK076","LAW")> 76</a> - Short title.
<br><strong>Repeal Date: 10/03/2011</strong>
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK77$$@TXBNK077","LAW")> 77</a> - Criminal investigations bureau.
<br><strong>Repeal Date: 10/03/2011</strong>
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK78$$@TXBNK078","LAW")> 78</a> - Powers with respect to certain crimes and frauds.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK79$$@TXBNK079","LAW")> 79</a> - Immunity.
<br><strong>Repeal Date: 10/03/2011</strong>
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK80$$@TXBNK080","LAW")> 80</a> - Other law enforcement authority, powers and duties not affected or impaired.
<br><strong>Repeal Date: 10/03/2011</strong>
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_2-b:financial_frauds.html
 
                                ARTICLE II-B
                              FINANCIAL FRAUDS
 
  Section 78.  Powers with respect to certain crimes and frauds.


::: article_2-c:87_community_bank_deposit_program.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA2-C$$@TXBNK0A2-C","LAW")> Article 2-C</a> -  COMMUNITY BANK DEPOSIT PROGRAM
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK85$$@TXBNK085","LAW")> 85</a> - Community bank deposit program; purpose.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK86$$@TXBNK086","LAW")> 86</a> - Eligibility.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK87$$@TXBNK087","LAW")> 87</a> - Deposits.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_2-c:community_bank_deposit_program.html
 
                                 ARTICLE 2-C
                       COMMUNITY BANK DEPOSIT PROGRAM
  Section 85. Community bank deposit program; purpose.
          86. Eligibility.
          87. Deposits.


::: article_2:45_department_of_financial_services_superintendent_of_financial_services_supervisory_and_regulatory_powers.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA2$$@TXBNK0A2","LAW")> Article 2</a> -  DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES; SUPERINTENDENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES; SUPERVISORY AND REGULATORY POWERS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK10$$@TXBNK010","LAW")> 10</a> - Declaration of policy.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK11$$@TXBNK011","LAW")> 11</a> - Department of financial services;  official documents; destruction of documents; official communications.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK12-A$$@TXBNK012-A","LAW")> 12-A</a> - Power of state chartered banking institutions to exercise the rights of counterpart federally chartered banking institutions.
<br><strong>Repeal Date: 09/10/2019</strong>
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14$$@TXBNK014","LAW")> 14</a> - Additional powers of the superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-A$$@TXBNK014-A","LAW")> 14-A</a> - Rate of interest; superintendent of financial services to adopt regulations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-B$$@TXBNK014-B","LAW")> 14-B</a> - Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe minimum rate of interest on mortgage escrow accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-C$$@TXBNK014-C","LAW")> 14-C</a> - Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe criteria for disclosure of information on savings and time accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-D$$@TXBNK014-D","LAW")> 14-D</a> - Power of the superintendent of financial services to prescribe a reasonable period of time permitting the drawing on items received for deposit in a customer's account.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-E$$@TXBNK014-E","LAW")> 14-E</a> - Power of the superintendent to authorize the operation of  savings banks and savings and loan associations in stock form.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK14-F$$@TXBNK014-F","LAW")> 14-F</a> - Power of the superintendent of financial services to require the provision of basic banking services.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK18$$@TXBNK018","LAW")> 18</a> - Fees for copies and certifications.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK18-A$$@TXBNK018-A","LAW")> 18-A</a> - Application fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK19$$@TXBNK019","LAW")> 19</a> - Assessments for deficiency in reserves against deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK20$$@TXBNK020","LAW")> 20</a> - Assessments, penalties and forfeitures entitled to priority.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK21$$@TXBNK021","LAW")> 21</a> - Collection of assessments, penalties and forfeitures; proceedings by attorney general.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK22$$@TXBNK022","LAW")> 22</a> - Fingerprints.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK23$$@TXBNK023","LAW")> 23</a> - Acceptance or rejection of certificate; investigation fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK24$$@TXBNK024","LAW")> 24</a> - Investigation by superintendent; refusal or approval; filing certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK25$$@TXBNK025","LAW")> 25</a> - Authorization certificate; when and to whom issued; contents; filing and recording.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK25-A$$@TXBNK025-A","LAW")> 25-A</a> - Authority of superintendent to file organization certificate and issue authorization certificate under certain conditions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK26$$@TXBNK026","LAW")> 26</a> - Licenses to foreign banking corporations; renewal.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK27$$@TXBNK027","LAW")> 27</a> - Exchange and examination of securities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK28$$@TXBNK028","LAW")> 28</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office; approval or refusal; certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK28-A$$@TXBNK028-A","LAW")> 28-A</a> - Temporary change of location; approval or refusal; certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK28-B$$@TXBNK028-B","LAW")> 28-B</a> - Credit needs of local communities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK28-C$$@TXBNK028-C","LAW")> 28-C</a> - Branch office closings; report to and action by the superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK29$$@TXBNK029","LAW")> 29</a> - Branch offices; public accommodation offices; approval or refusal; certificate; investigation fee.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK30$$@TXBNK030","LAW")> 30</a> - Unclaimed amounts; deposit by superintendent in trust; preference; release of debtor.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK31$$@TXBNK031","LAW")> 31</a> - Index of persons entitled to unclaimed amounts; payment to persons entitled; deduction of service charge.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK32$$@TXBNK032","LAW")> 32</a> - Insurance of deposits and share accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK33$$@TXBNK033","LAW")> 33</a> - Reserve depositaries.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK34$$@TXBNK034","LAW")> 34</a> - Superintendent as attorney to accept service of process.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK36$$@TXBNK036","LAW")> 36</a> - Examinations; right of inspection; penalties for refusing to permit examination.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK36-A$$@TXBNK036-A","LAW")> 36-A</a> - Reports of lending by banking organizations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK37$$@TXBNK037","LAW")> 37</a> - Reports to superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK37-A$$@TXBNK037-A","LAW")> 37-A</a> - Submission of annual reports by the Holocaust claims processing office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK38$$@TXBNK038","LAW")> 38</a> - Power of subpoena.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK39$$@TXBNK039","LAW")> 39</a> - Orders of superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK40$$@TXBNK040","LAW")> 40</a> - Revocation of authorization certificate or license or suspension of activities in certain cases.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK41$$@TXBNK041","LAW")> 41</a> - Removal of director, trustee or officer.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK42$$@TXBNK042","LAW")> 42</a> - Official acts of superintendent and details of department business to be made public.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK44$$@TXBNK044","LAW")> 44</a> - Violations; penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK44-A$$@TXBNK044-A","LAW")> 44-A</a> - Violations and penalties; failure to make reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK45$$@TXBNK045","LAW")> 45</a> - Export finance awareness program.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_2:department_of_financial_services_superintendent_of_financial_services_supervisory_and_regulatory_powers.html
 
                                 ARTICLE II
   DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES; SUPERINTENDENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES;
                      SUPERVISORY AND REGULATORY POWERS
  Section 10.   Declaration of policy.
          11.   Department  of  financial  services;  official  documents;
                  destruction of documents; official communications.
          12-a. Power of state chartered banking institutions to  exercise
                  the  rights  of  counterpart federally chartered banking
                  institutions.
          14.   Additional powers of the superintendent.
          14-a. Rate of interest; superintendent of financial services  to
                  adopt regulations.
          14-b. Power  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services to
                  prescribe minimum rate of interest  on  mortgage  escrow
                  accounts.
          14-c. Power  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services to
                  prescribe  criteria  for  disclosue  of  information  on
                  savings and time accounts.
          14-d. Power  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services to
                  prescribe a reasonable period  of  time  permitting  the
                  drawing  on  items  received for deposit in a customer's
                  account.
          14-e. Power of the superintendent to authorize the operation  of
                  savings banks and savings and loan associations in stock
                  form.
          14-f. Power  of  the  superintendent  of  financial  services to
                  require the provision of basic banking services.
          18.   Fees for copies and certifications.
          18-a. Application fees.
          19.   Assessments for deficiency in reserves against deposits.
          20.   Assessments,  penalties  and   forfeitures   entitled   to
                  priority.
          21.   Collection  of  assessments,  penalties  and  forfeitures;
                  proceedings by attorney general.
          22.   Fingerprints.
          23.   Acceptance  or  rejection  of  certificate;  investigation
                  fees.
          24.   Investigation  by  superintendent;  refusal  or  approval;
                  filing certificate.
          25.   Authorization  certificate;  when  and  to  whom   issued;
                  contents; filing and recording.
          25-a. Authority   of   superintendent   to   file   organization
                  certificate and issue  authorization  certificate  under
                  certain conditions.
          26.   Licenses to foreign banking corporations; renewal.
          27.   Exchange and examination of securities.
          28.   Change  of  location;  change  of designation of principal
                  office; approval or refusal; certificate.
          28-a. Temporary  change  of  location;  approval   or   refusal;
                  certificate.
          28-b. Credit needs of local communities.
          28-c. Branch  office  closings;  report  to  and  action  by the
                  superintendent.
          29.   Branch offices; public accommodation offices; approval  or
                  refusal; certificate; investigation fee.
          30.   Unclaimed  amounts;  deposit  by  superintendent in trust;
                  preference; release of debtor.
          31.   Index of persons entitled to unclaimed amounts; payment to
                  persons entitled; deduction of service charge.
          32.   Insurance of deposits and share accounts.
          33.   Reserve depositaries.
          34.   Superintendent as attorney to accept service of process.
          36.   Examinations;  right of inspection; penalties for refusing
                  to permit examination.
          36-a. Reports of lending by banking organizations.
          37.   Reports to superintendent.
          37-a. Submission of  annual  reports  by  the  Holocaust  claims
                  processing office.
          38.   Power of subpoena.
          39.   Orders of superintendent.
          40.   Revocation  of  authorization  certificate  or  license or
                  suspension of activities in certain cases.
          41.   Removal of director, trustee or officer.
          42.   Official acts of superintendent and details of  department
                  business to be made public.
          44.   Violations; penalties.
          44-a. Violations and penalties; failure to make reports.
          45.   Export finance awareness program.


::: article_3-a:147_bank_holding_companies_control_of_banking_institutions.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA3-A$$@TXBNK0A3-A","LAW")> Article 3-A</a> -  BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; CONTROL OF BANKING INSTITUTIONS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK141$$@TXBNK0141","LAW")> 141</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK142$$@TXBNK0142","LAW")> 142</a> - Limitations on, and regulation of, bank holding companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK142-A$$@TXBNK0142-A","LAW")> 142-A</a> - Limitation on acquisition of newly chartered banking institutions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK143$$@TXBNK0143","LAW")> 143</a> - Limitations on directors, officers and employees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK143-A$$@TXBNK0143-A","LAW")> 143-A</a> - Acquisitions by companies of all the capital stock of banks and trust companies; no change of ultimate control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK143-B$$@TXBNK0143-B","LAW")> 143-B</a> - Acquisition by companies of control of banking institutions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK145$$@TXBNK0145","LAW")> 145</a> - Penalties; restraining orders and injunctions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK146$$@TXBNK0146","LAW")> 146</a> - Saving provision.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK147$$@TXBNK0147","LAW")> 147</a> - Separability of provisions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_3-a:bank_holding_companies_control_of_banking_institutions.html
 
                                ARTICLE III-A
           BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; CONTROL OF BANKING INSTITUTIONS
  Section 141.   Definitions.
          142.   Limitations   on,   and   regulation   of,  bank  holding
                   companies.
          142-a. Limitation on  acquisition  of  newly  chartered  banking
                   institutions.
          143.   Limitations on directors, officers and employees.
          143-a. Acquisitions  by  companies  of  all the capital stock of
                   banks  and  trust  companies;  no  change  of  ultimate
                   control.
          143-b. Acquisition   by   companies   of   control   of  banking
                   institutions.
          145.   Penalties; restraining orders and injunctions.
          146.   Saving provision.
          147.   Separability of provisions.


::: article_3-b:155_subsidiary_trust_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA3-B$$@TXBNK0A3-B","LAW")> Article 3-B</a> -  SUBSIDIARY TRUST COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK150$$@TXBNK0150","LAW")> 150</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK151$$@TXBNK0151","LAW")> 151</a> - Organization of subsidiary trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK152$$@TXBNK0152","LAW")> 152</a> - Business of subsidiary trust companies; limitation on powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK153$$@TXBNK0153","LAW")> 153</a> - Offices.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK154$$@TXBNK0154","LAW")> 154</a> - Transfer of fiduciary relationships from affiliated banks or trust companies to subsidiary trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK155$$@TXBNK0155","LAW")> 155</a> - Applicable laws and regulations.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_3-b:subsidiary_trust_companies.html
 
                                 ARTICLE 3-B
                         SUBSIDIARY TRUST COMPANIES
 
  Section 150. Definitions.
          151. Organization of subsidiary trust companies.
          152. Business  of  subsidiary  trust  companies;  limitation  on
                 powers.
          153. Offices.
          154. Transfer of fiduciary relationships from  affiliated  banks
                 or trust companies to subsidiary trust companies.
          155. Applicable laws and regulations.


::: article_3:140a_banks_and_trust_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA3$$@TXBNK0A3","LAW")> Article 3</a> -  BANKS AND TRUST COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK94$$@TXBNK094","LAW")> 94</a> - Change from bank to trust company; from trust company to bank.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK96$$@TXBNK096","LAW")> 96</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK96-A$$@TXBNK096-A","LAW")> 96-A</a> - Servicing of mortgages by banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK96-B$$@TXBNK096-B","LAW")> 96-B</a> - Payroll payment by banks or trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK96-C$$@TXBNK096-C","LAW")> 96-C</a> - Power to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust or individual retirement trust.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK96-D$$@TXBNK096-D","LAW")> 96-D</a> - Banking development districts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK97$$@TXBNK097","LAW")> 97</a> - Power to purchase securities and stocks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK98$$@TXBNK098","LAW")> 98</a> - Power to take and hold real estate; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK98-A$$@TXBNK098-A","LAW")> 98-A</a> - Club accounts.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK100$$@TXBNK0100","LAW")> 100</a> - Fiduciary powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK100-A$$@TXBNK0100-A","LAW")> 100-A</a> - Fiduciary capacities; appointment by court authorized; bond; oath; accounting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK100-B$$@TXBNK0100-B","LAW")> 100-B</a> - Investments as fiduciary; when interest is to be paid; preference.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK100-C$$@TXBNK0100-C","LAW")> 100-C</a> - Common trust funds.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK100-D$$@TXBNK0100-D","LAW")> 100-D</a> - Foreign common trust funds.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK101$$@TXBNK0101","LAW")> 101</a> - Additional powers of certain trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK102$$@TXBNK0102","LAW")> 102</a> - Powers of specially chartered trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK102-A$$@TXBNK0102-A","LAW")> 102-A</a> - Limited liability trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK103$$@TXBNK0103","LAW")> 103</a> - Restrictions on loans, purchases of securities, total liabilities and other credit exposures to a bank or trust company of any one person.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK104$$@TXBNK0104","LAW")> 104</a> - Entries in books; restrictions; amortization of securities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK105$$@TXBNK0105","LAW")> 105</a> - Branch offices; prohibition against doing business at unauthorized places.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK105-A$$@TXBNK0105-A","LAW")> 105-A</a> - Electronic facilities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK105-B$$@TXBNK0105-B","LAW")> 105-B</a> - Trust offices.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK106$$@TXBNK0106","LAW")> 106</a> - Deposits by banks and trust companies with other banking corporations and private bankers; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK107$$@TXBNK0107","LAW")> 107</a> - Reserves against deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK107-A$$@TXBNK0107-A","LAW")> 107-A</a> - Security for public deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK108$$@TXBNK0108","LAW")> 108</a> - Rates of interest; installment obligations; personal loan departments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK108-A$$@TXBNK0108-A","LAW")> 108-A</a> - Acceptance of United States currency.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK109$$@TXBNK0109","LAW")> 109</a> - Closing of books; profits; how to be computed.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK110$$@TXBNK0110","LAW")> 110</a> - Surplus fund; of what composed, and for what purposes used.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK111$$@TXBNK0111","LAW")> 111</a> - Profits; credits to surplus fund and to undivided profits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK112$$@TXBNK0112","LAW")> 112</a> - Dividends; payable from net profits; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK113$$@TXBNK0113","LAW")> 113</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK114$$@TXBNK0114","LAW")> 114</a> - Assessment of stockholders to make good impairment of capital stock; sale of stock.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK121$$@TXBNK0121","LAW")> 121</a> - Reports to directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK122$$@TXBNK0122","LAW")> 122</a> - Examinations of banks and trust companies by directors; employment of assistants.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK123$$@TXBNK0123","LAW")> 123</a> - Reports of directors' examinations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK124$$@TXBNK0124","LAW")> 124</a> - Communications from department of financial services to be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK125$$@TXBNK0125","LAW")> 125</a> - Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK128$$@TXBNK0128","LAW")> 128</a> - Preservation of books and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK129$$@TXBNK0129","LAW")> 129</a> - Requirement of notice on withdrawal of certain time deposits; notice to superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK130$$@TXBNK0130","LAW")> 130</a> - Restrictions on officers, directors and employees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK131$$@TXBNK0131","LAW")> 131</a> - Prohibitions against encroachments upon certain powers of banks and trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK132$$@TXBNK0132","LAW")> 132</a> - Use of sign, or words, indicating bank or trust company by unauthorized persons prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK133$$@TXBNK0133","LAW")> 133</a> - Use of banking institution name.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK134$$@TXBNK0134","LAW")> 134</a> - Repayment of deposits standing in the names of minors, trustees or joint depositors; repayment where adverse claim is asserted; interpleader in certai
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK136$$@TXBNK0136","LAW")> 136</a> - Change of national banking association into state bank by conversion or merger.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK136-A$$@TXBNK0136-A","LAW")> 136-A</a> - Purchase of assets of national banking association by bank or trust company.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK136-B$$@TXBNK0136-B","LAW")> 136-B</a> - Approval of superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK136-C$$@TXBNK0136-C","LAW")> 136-C</a> - Effect of merger or conversion of national banking association into state bank.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK137$$@TXBNK0137","LAW")> 137</a> - Change of state bank into national banking association by conversion, merger or consolidation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK138$$@TXBNK0138","LAW")> 138</a> - Foreign branches; performance of contracts and repayment of deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK139$$@TXBNK0139","LAW")> 139</a> - Saving clause.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK140-A$$@TXBNK0140-A","LAW")> 140-A</a> - Stock option plans.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_3:banks_and_trust_companies.html
 
                                 ARTICLE III
                          BANKS AND TRUST COMPANIES
  Section  94.    Change from bank to trust company; from trust company to
                    bank.
           96.    General powers.
           96-a.  Servicing of mortgages by banks.
           96-b.  Payroll payment by banks or trust companies.
           96-c.  Power  to  act as trustee under self-employed retirement
                    trust or individual retirement trust.
           96-d.  Banking development districts.
           97.    Power to purchase securities and stocks.
           98.    Power to take and hold real estate; restrictions.
           98-a.  Club accounts.
          100.    Fiduciary powers.
          100-a.  Fiduciary capacities; appointment by  court  authorized;
                    bond; oath; accounting.
          100-b.  Investments  as  fiduciary; when interest is to be paid;
                    preference.
          100-c.  Common trust funds.
          100-d.  Foreign common trust funds.
          101.    Additional powers of certain trust companies.
          102.    Powers of specially chartered trust companies.
          102-a.  Limited liability trust companies.
          103.    Restrictions on loans, purchases  of  securities,  total
                    liabilities  and  other  credit exposures to a bank or
                    trust company of any one person.
          104.    Entries  in   books;   restrictions;   amortization   of
                    securities.
          105.    Branch  offices;  prohibition  against doing business at
                    unauthorized places.
          105-a.  Electronic facilities.
          105-b.  Trust offices.
          106.    Deposits by banks and trust companies with other banking
                    corporations and private bankers; restrictions.
          107.    Reserves against deposits.
          107-a.  Security for public deposits.
          108.    Rates of  interest;  installment  obligations;  personal
                    loan departments.
          108-a.  Acceptance of United States currency.
          109.    Closing of books; profits; how to be computed.
          110.    Surplus  fund;  of  what composed, and for what purposes
                    used.
          111.    Profits;  credits  to  surplus  fund  and  to  undivided
                    profits.
          112.    Dividends; payable from net profits; restrictions.
          113.    Change  of  location; change of designation of principal
                    office.
          114.    Assessment of stockholders to make  good  impairment  of
                    capital stock; sale of stock.
          121.    Reports to directors.
          122.    Examinations  of banks and trust companies by directors;
                    employment of assistants.
          123.    Reports of directors' examinatons.
          124.    Communications from department of financial services  to
                    be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
          125.    Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
          128.    Preservation of books and records.
          129.    Requirement  of  notice  on  withdrawal  of certain time
                    deposits; notice to superintendent.
          130.    Restrictions on officers, directors and employees.
          131.    Prohibitions  against  encroachments upon certain powers
                    of banks and trust companies.
          132.    Use of sign, or words, indicating bank or trust  company
                    by unauthorized persons prohibited.
          133.    Use of banking institution name.
          134.    Repayment  of  deposits standing in the names of minors,
                    trustees or joint depositors; repayment where  adverse
                    claim  is  asserted;  interpleader in certain actions;
                    effect  of  claims  or  advices  originating  in,  and
                    statutes,  rules  or  regulations  purporting to be in
                    force in occupied territories.
          136.    Change of national banking association into  state  bank
                    by conversion or merger.
          136-a.  Purchase  of  assets  of national banking association by
                    bank or trust company.
          136-b.  Approval of superintendent.
          136-c.  Effect of  merger  or  conversion  of  national  banking
                    association into state bank.
          137.    Change  of  state bank into national banking association
                    by conversion, merger or consolidation.
          138.    Foreign branches; performance of contracts and repayment
                    of deposits.
          139.    Saving clause.
          140-a.  Stock option plans.


::: article_4-a:195_public_accommodation_offices_of_banks_trust_companies_savings_banks_savings_and_loan_associations_and_foreign_banking_corporations.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA4-A$$@TXBNK0A4-A","LAW")> Article 4-A</a> -  PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION OFFICES OF BANKS, TRUST COMPANIES, SAVINGS BANKS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATIONS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK190$$@TXBNK0190","LAW")> 190</a> - Application of article; definition.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK191$$@TXBNK0191","LAW")> 191</a> - Public accommodation offices authorized.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK192$$@TXBNK0192","LAW")> 192</a> - Location of public accommodation office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK193$$@TXBNK0193","LAW")> 193</a> - Limitation upon business which may be transacted at public accommodation office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK194$$@TXBNK0194","LAW")> 194</a> - Public accommodation office not deemed branch office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK195$$@TXBNK0195","LAW")> 195</a> - Rules, regulations and orders.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_4-a:public_accommodation_offices_of_banks_trust_companies_savings_banks_savings_and_loan_associations_and_foreign_banking_corporations.html
 
                                ARTICLE IV-A
           PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION OFFICES OF BANKS, TRUST COMPANIES,
              SAVINGS BANKS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND
                        FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATIONS
 
  Section 190. Application of article; definition.
          191. Public accommodation offices authorized.
          192. Location of public accommodation office.
          193. Limitation  upon business which may be transacted at public
                 accommodation office.
          194. Public accommodation office not deemed branch office.
          195. Rules, regulations and orders.


::: article_4:181_private_bankers.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA4$$@TXBNK0A4","LAW")> Article 4</a> -  PRIVATE BANKERS.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK160$$@TXBNK0160","LAW")> 160</a> - Verified certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK161$$@TXBNK1161","LAW")> 161</a> - Authorization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK162$$@TXBNK0162","LAW")> 162</a> - Permanent capital; increase or decrease.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK163$$@TXBNK0163","LAW")> 163</a> - Restrictions as to place of business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK164$$@TXBNK0164","LAW")> 164</a> - Change of location.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK165$$@TXBNK0165","LAW")> 165</a> - Segregation of investments; title to be taken in descriptive name.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK166$$@TXBNK0166","LAW")> 166</a> - Depositors preferred in case of failure or suspension.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK167$$@TXBNK0167","LAW")> 167</a> - Reserves against deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK168$$@TXBNK0168","LAW")> 168</a> - Restrictions on acceptance of deposits and payment of interest.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK171$$@TXBNK0171","LAW")> 171</a> - Repayment of deposits standing in the names of minors, trustees or joint depositors; repayment where adverse claim is asserted; interpleader in certai
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK172$$@TXBNK0172","LAW")> 172</a> - Restrictions on investments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK173$$@TXBNK0173","LAW")> 173</a> - Rate of interest; effect of usury.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK174$$@TXBNK0174","LAW")> 174</a> - Restrictions on purchases of, and loans on real estate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK175$$@TXBNK0175","LAW")> 175</a> - Books and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK176$$@TXBNK0176","LAW")> 176</a> - Reports required by superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK177$$@TXBNK0177","LAW")> 177</a> - Official communications from superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK178$$@TXBNK0178","LAW")> 178</a> - Business of deceased private banker; continuation; liquidation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK179$$@TXBNK0179","LAW")> 179</a> - Effect of revocation of authorization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK180$$@TXBNK0180","LAW")> 180</a> - Prohibitions against encroachment upon certain powers of private bankers, savings banks and savings and loan associations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK181$$@TXBNK0181","LAW")> 181</a> - Exemptions of certain private bankers.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_4:private_bankers.html
 
                                 ARTICLE IV.
                              PRIVATE BANKERS.
 
  Section 160.  Verified certificate.
          161.  Authorization certificate.
          162.  Permanent capital; increase or decrease.
          163.  Restrictions as to place of business.
          164.  Change of location.
          165.  Segregation   of   investments;   title  to  be  taken  in
                  descriptive name.
          166.  Depositors preferred in case of failure or suspension.
          167.  Reserves against deposits.
          168.  Restrictions on acceptance  of  deposits  and  payment  of
                  interest.
          171.  Repayment  of  deposits  standing  in the names of minors,
                  trustees or joint depositors;  repayment  where  adverse
                  claim  is  asserted;  interpleader  in  certain actions;
                  effect  of  claims  or  advices  originating   in,   and
                  statutes,  rules or regulations purporting to be inforce
                  in occupied territory.
          172.  Restrictions on investments.
          173.  Rate of interest; effect of usury.
          174.  Restrictions on purchases of, and loans on real estate.
          175.  Books and records.
          176.  Reports required by superintendent; penalty for failure to
                  make.
          177.  Official communications from superintendent.
          178.  Business  of  deceased   private   banker;   continuation;
                  liquidation.
          179.  Effect of revocation of authorization certificate.
          180.  Prohibitions  against  encroachment upon certain powers of
                  private bankers, savings  banks  and  savings  and  loan
                  associations.
          181.  Exemptions of certain private bankers.


::: article_5-a:220_new_york_business_development_corporation.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA5-A$$@TXBNK0A5-A","LAW")> Article 5-A</a> -  NEW YORK BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK210$$@TXBNK0210","LAW")> 210</a> - Establishment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK211$$@TXBNK0211","LAW")> 211</a> - Economic regions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK212$$@TXBNK0212","LAW")> 212</a> - Purposes, powers and operation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK213$$@TXBNK0213","LAW")> 213</a> - Board of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK214$$@TXBNK0214","LAW")> 214</a> - Committees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK215$$@TXBNK0215","LAW")> 215</a> - Membership.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK216$$@TXBNK0216","LAW")> 216</a> - Capital stock.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK217$$@TXBNK0217","LAW")> 217</a> - Surplus, obligations and depositories.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK218$$@TXBNK0218","LAW")> 218</a> - Supervision and reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK219$$@TXBNK0219","LAW")> 219</a> - Unissued securities and reorganization.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK220$$@TXBNK1220","LAW")> 220</a> - Participation.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_5-a:new_york_business_development_corporation.html
 
                                 ARTICLE V-A
                  NEW YORK BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
 
  Section 210. Establishment.
          211. Economic regions.
          212. Purposes, powers and operation.
          213. Board of directors.
          214. Committees.
          215. Membership.
          216. Capital stock.
          217. Surplus, obligations and depositories.
          218. Supervision and reports.
          219. Unissued securities and reorganization.
          220. Participation.


::: article_5-b:221k_license_for_a_foreign_banking_corporation_to_maintain_a_representative.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA5-B$$@TXBNK0A5-B","LAW")> Article 5-B</a> -  LICENSE FOR A FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATION TO MAINTAIN A REPRESENTATIVE
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-A$$@TXBNK0221-A","LAW")> 221-A</a> - Doing business without license prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-B$$@TXBNK0221-B","LAW")> 221-B</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-C$$@TXBNK0221-C","LAW")> 221-C</a> - Application for license; fees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-D$$@TXBNK0221-D","LAW")> 221-D</a> - Conditions precedent to issuing license; procedure where application denied.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-E$$@TXBNK0221-E","LAW")> 221-E</a> - License provisions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-F$$@TXBNK0221-F","LAW")> 221-F</a> - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license; procedure.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-G$$@TXBNK0221-G","LAW")> 221-G</a> - Superintendent authorized to examine; expenses.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-H$$@TXBNK0221-H","LAW")> 221-H</a> - Licensee's books and records; reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-I$$@TXBNK0221-I","LAW")> 221-I</a> - Notice of acquisition of control or merger.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-J$$@TXBNK0221-J","LAW")> 221-J</a> - Authority of superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK221-K$$@TXBNK0221-K","LAW")> 221-K</a> - Separability of provisions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_5-b:license_for_a_foreign_banking_corporation_to_maintain_a_representative.html
 
                                 ARTICLE V-B
   LICENSE FOR A FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATION TO MAINTAIN A REPRESENTATIVE
 
  Section 221-a. Doing business without license prohibited.
          221-b. Definitions.
          221-c. Application for license; fees.
          221-d. Conditions  precedent to issuing license; procedure where
                   application denied.
          221-e. License provisions.
          221-f. Grounds  for  suspension  or   revocation   of   license;
                   procedure.
          221-g. Superintendent authorized to examine; expenses.
          221-h. Licensee's books and records; reports.
          221-i. Notice of acquisition of control or merger.
          221-j. Authority of superintendent.
          221-k. Separability of provisions.


::: article_5-c:227c_interstate_branching.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA5-C$$@TXBNK0A5-C","LAW")> Article 5-C</a> -  INTERSTATE BRANCHING
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK222$$@TXBNK0222","LAW")> 222</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK223$$@TXBNK0223","LAW")> 223</a> - Establishment of branches or trust offices by means of an acquistion transaction.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK223-A$$@TXBNK0223-A","LAW")> 223-A</a> - Establishment of branches by out-of-state banks by de novo branching.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK224$$@TXBNK0224","LAW")> 224</a> - Application for the establishment of branches or trust offices not resulting from an acquistion transaction; retention of branches or trust offices resulting from merger or acquistion.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK224-A$$@TXBNK0224-A","LAW")> 224-A</a> - Change of location of branches or trust offices by out-of-state state banks or out-of-state state-chartered trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK225$$@TXBNK0225","LAW")> 225</a> - Interstate acquisition transactions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK225-A$$@TXBNK0225-A","LAW")> 225-A</a> - Power of superintendent to examine branches or trust offices of out-of-state state banks or out-of-state state-chartered trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK225-B$$@TXBNK0225-B","LAW")> 225-B</a> - Applicability of certain sections to out-of-state banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK226$$@TXBNK0226","LAW")> 226</a> - Powers of out-of-state state banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK227$$@TXBNK0227","LAW")> 227</a> - Powers permitted to out-of-state branches of New York banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK227-B$$@TXBNK0227-B","LAW")> 227-B</a> - Rules and regulations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK227-C$$@TXBNK0227-C","LAW")> 227-C</a> - Separability of provisions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_5-c:interstate_branching.html
 
                                 ARTICLE 5-C
                            INTERSTATE BRANCHING
  Section 222.   Definitions.
          223.   Establishment of branches or trust offices by means of an
                   acquisition transaction.
          223-a. Establishment  of  branches  by  out-of-state banks by de
                   novo branching.
          224.   Application for the establishment of  branches  or  trust
                   offices  not resulting from an acquisition transaction;
                   retention of branches or trust offices  resulting  from
                   merger or acquisition.
          224-a. Change  of  location  of  branches  or  trust  offices by
                   out-of-state    state     banks     or     out-of-state
                   state-chartered trust companies.
          225.   Interstate acquisition transactions.
          225-a. Power  of  superintendent  to  examine  branches or trust
                   offices of out-of-state  state  banks  or  out-of-state
                   state-chartered trust companies.
          225-b. Applicability of certain sections to out-of-state banks.
          226.   Powers of out-of-state state banks.
          227.   Powers  permitted  to  out-of-state  branches of New York
                   banks.
          227-b. Rules and regulations.
          227-c. Separability of provisions.


::: article_5-d:228f_small_business_investment_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA5-D$$@TXBNK0A5-D","LAW")> Article 5-D</a> -  SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-A$$@TXBNK0228-A","LAW")> 228-A</a> - Establishment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-B$$@TXBNK0228-B","LAW")> 228-B</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-C$$@TXBNK0228-C","LAW")> 228-C</a> - Purposes, powers and operation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-D$$@TXBNK0228-D","LAW")> 228-D</a> - New York small business investment company; board of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-E$$@TXBNK0228-E","LAW")> 228-E</a> - New York specialized small business investment company; board of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK228-F$$@TXBNK0228-F","LAW")> 228-F</a> - Reports.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_5-d:small_business_investment_companies.html
 
                                 ARTICLE 5-D
                     SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
 
  Section 228-a. Establishment.
          228-b. Definitions.
          228-c. Purposes, powers and operation.
          228-d. New  York  small  business  investment  company; board of
                   directors.
          228-e. New York specialized small business  investment  company;
                   board of directors.
          228-f. Reports.


::: article_5:209_foreign_banking_corporations_and_national_banks.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA5$$@TXBNK0A5","LAW")> Article 5</a> -  FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATIONS AND NATIONAL BANKS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK200$$@TXBNK0200","LAW")> 200</a> - When foreign banking corporation may transact business in this state.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK200-A$$@TXBNK0200-A","LAW")> 200-A</a> - Actions maintained by a foreign banking corporation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK200-B$$@TXBNK0200-B","LAW")> 200-B</a> - Actions maintained against foreign banking corporation; residents; foreign corporations, foreign banking corporations as non-residents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK200-C$$@TXBNK0200-C","LAW")> 200-C</a> - Maintenance of books, accounts and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK201$$@TXBNK0201","LAW")> 201</a> - Conditions to be complied with by foreign banking corporations applying for initial license.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK201-A$$@TXBNK0201-A","LAW")> 201-A</a> - Rights and privileges of foreign banking corporation under license; effect of revocation.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK201-B$$@TXBNK0201-B","LAW")> 201-B</a> - Fiduciary powers of foreign banking corporations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK201-C$$@TXBNK0201-C","LAW")> 201-C</a> - Notice of acquisition of control or merger.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202$$@TXBNK0202","LAW")> 202</a> - Rates of interest; installment obligations; personal loan departments; effect of usury
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-A$$@TXBNK0202-A","LAW")> 202-A</a> - Restrictions on receiving deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-B$$@TXBNK0202-B","LAW")> 202-B</a> - Maintenance of assets in this state.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-C$$@TXBNK0202-C","LAW")> 202-C</a> - Reserves against deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-D$$@TXBNK0202-D","LAW")> 202-D</a> - Foreign banking corporation may not maintain both agencies and branches in this state.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-F$$@TXBNK0202-F","LAW")> 202-F</a> - Restrictions on loans, purchases of securities and total liabilities of any one person to New York branch or agency of foreign bank.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-G$$@TXBNK0202-G","LAW")> 202-G</a> - Succession to agency by branch and to branch by agency.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-H$$@TXBNK0202-H","LAW")> 202-H</a> - Repayment of deposits standing in the names of minors, trustees, joint depositors or custodians; interpleader in certain actions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-I$$@TXBNK0202-I","LAW")> 202-I</a> - Safe deposit business of branches.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK202-J$$@TXBNK0202-J","LAW")> 202-J</a> - Power to act as trustee under self-employed retirement trust or individual retirement trust.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK203$$@TXBNK0203","LAW")> 203</a> - Change of location, name or business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK204$$@TXBNK0204","LAW")> 204</a> - Reports of foreign banking corporations; penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK204-A$$@TXBNK0204-A","LAW")> 204-A</a> - Payment of claims by foreign banking corporations where adverse claim is asserted; effect of claims or advices originating in, and statutes, rules or
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK206$$@TXBNK0206","LAW")> 206</a> - Termination of existence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK207$$@TXBNK0207","LAW")> 207</a> - Service of process on unlicensed corporation formed under laws other than the statutes of this state.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK208$$@TXBNK0208","LAW")> 208</a> - Nondiscriminatory treatment of insured state banks and national banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK209$$@TXBNK0209","LAW")> 209</a> - Restrictions on executive officers of foreign banking corporations and national banks.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_5:foreign_banking_corporations_and_national_banks.html
 
                                  ARTICLE V
               FOREIGN BANKING CORPORATIONS AND NATIONAL BANKS
 
  Section 200.   When foreign banking corporation may transact business in
                   this state.
          200-a. Actions maintained by a foreign banking corporation.
          200-b. Actions  maintained  against foreign banking corporation;
                   residents;  foreign   corporations,   foreign   banking
                   corporations as non-residents.
          200-c. Maintenance of books, accounts and records.
          201.   Conditions   to  be  complied  with  by  foreign  banking
                   corporations applying for initial license.
          201-a. Rights and  privileges  of  foreign  banking  corporation
                   under license; effect of revocation.
          201-b. Fiduciary powers of foreign banking corporations.
          201-c. Notice of acquisition of control or merger.
          202.   Rates of interest; installment obligations; personal loan
                   departments; effect of usury.
          202-a. Restrictions on receiving deposits.
          202-b. Maintenance of assets in this state.
          202-c. Reserves against deposits.
          202-d. Foreign   banking   corporation  may  not  maintain  both
                   agencies and branches in this state.
          202-f. Restrictions on loans, purchases of securities and  total
                   liabilities  of  any  one  person to New York branch or
                   agency of foreign bank.
          202-g. Succession to agency by branch and to branch by agency.
          202-h. Repayment of deposits standing in the  names  of  minors,
                   trustees,  joint depositors or custodians; interpleader
                   in certain actions.
          202-i. Safe deposit business of branches.
          202-j. Power to act as trustee  under  self-employed  retirement
                   trust or individual retirement trust.
          203.   Change of location, name or business.
          204.   Reports of foreign banking corporations; penalties.
          204-a. Payment  of  claims by foreign banking corporations where
                   adverse claim is asserted; effect of claims or  advices
                   originating  in,  and  statutes,  rules  or regulations
                   purporting  to  be  in  force  in  occupied  territory;
                   performance  of  contracts  and  repayment  of deposits
                   performable or repayable at foreign offices of  foreign
                   banking corporations.
          206.   Termination of existence.
          207.   Service of process on unlicensed corporation formed under
                   laws other than the statutes of this state.
          208.   Nondiscriminatory  treatment  of  insured state banks and
                   national banks.
          209.   Restrictions on executive  officers  of  foreign  banking
                   corporations and national banks.


::: article_6-b:289b_fund_for_insuring_deposits_in_savings_banks_andor_otherwise_protecting_depositors.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA6-B$$@TXBNK0A6-B","LAW")> Article 6-B</a> -  FUND FOR INSURING DEPOSITS IN SAVINGS BANKS AND/OR OTHERWISE PROTECTING DEPOSITORS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK282$$@TXBNK0282","LAW")> 282</a> - Creation of fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK283$$@TXBNK0283","LAW")> 283</a> - Management of fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK284$$@TXBNK0284","LAW")> 284</a> - Agreement; filing and provisions thereof.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK285$$@TXBNK0285","LAW")> 285</a> - Powers which may be granted to trustee.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK286$$@TXBNK0286","LAW")> 286</a> - Taxation and exemption of property held in fund; exemption of mortgages from mortgage recording tax.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK287$$@TXBNK0287","LAW")> 287</a> - Member savings banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK288$$@TXBNK0288","LAW")> 288</a> - Contributions as assets.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK289$$@TXBNK0289","LAW")> 289</a> - Confirmation of powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK289-A$$@TXBNK0289-A","LAW")> 289-A</a> - Immunity of trustee and member savings banks.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK289-B$$@TXBNK0289-B","LAW")> 289-B</a> - Construction.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_6-b:fund_for_insuring_deposits_in_savings_banks_andor_otherwise_protecting_depositors.html
 
                                ARTICLE VI-B
             FUND FOR INSURING DEPOSITS IN SAVINGS BANKS AND/OR
                       OTHERWISE PROTECTING DEPOSITORS
 
  Section 282.   Creation of fund.
          283.   Management of fund.
          284.   Agreement; filing and provisions thereof.
          285.   Powers which may be granted to trustee.
          286.   Taxation   and   exemption  of  property  held  in  fund;
                   exemption of mortgages from mortgage recording tax.
          287.   Member savings banks.
          288.   Contributions as assets.
          289.   Confirmation of powers.
          289-a. Immunity of trustee and member savings banks.
          289-b. Construction.


::: article_6-c:294_mutual_holding_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA6-C$$@TXBNK0A6-C","LAW")> Article 6-C</a> -  MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK290$$@TXBNK0290","LAW")> 290</a> - Authorization of the formation of mutual holding companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK291$$@TXBNK0291","LAW")> 291</a> - Required approvals.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK292$$@TXBNK0292","LAW")> 292</a> - Formation of a mutual holding company.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK293$$@TXBNK0293","LAW")> 293</a> - Mutual holding company powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK294$$@TXBNK0294","LAW")> 294</a> - Conversion of mutual holding company into stock holding company.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_6-c:mutual_holding_companies.html
 
                                ARTICLE VI-C
 
                          MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES
 
  Section 290. Authorization of the formation of mutual holding companies.
          291. Required approvals.
          292. Formation of a mutual holding company.
          293. Mutual holding company powers.
          294. Conversion  of  mutual  holding  company into stock holding
                 company.


::: article_6:260b_savings_banks.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA6$$@TXBNK0A6","LAW")> Article 6</a> -  SAVINGS BANKS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK229$$@TXBNK0229","LAW")> 229</a> - Application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK230$$@TXBNK0230","LAW")> 230</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK232$$@TXBNK0232","LAW")> 232</a> - Organization certificate to be submitted to superintendent; proof of publication and service of notice of intention.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK233$$@TXBNK0233","LAW")> 233</a> - When corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to commencing business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK234$$@TXBNK0234","LAW")> 234</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK234-A$$@TXBNK0234-A","LAW")> 234-A</a> - Settlement, modification or readjustment of investment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK234-B$$@TXBNK0234-B","LAW")> 234-B</a> - Trust powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK235$$@TXBNK0235","LAW")> 235</a> - Investment of funds.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK235-B$$@TXBNK0235-B","LAW")> 235-B</a> - Effect of usury.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK235-C$$@TXBNK0235-C","LAW")> 235-C</a> - Regulation of certain charges.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK235-D$$@TXBNK0235-D","LAW")> 235-D</a> - Service corporations owned by savings banks; authorized activities of such corporations; investment therein.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK236$$@TXBNK0236","LAW")> 236</a> - Deposits by savings banks with other banking corporations and private bankers; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK237$$@TXBNK0237","LAW")> 237</a> - Deposits with savings banks; restrictions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK238$$@TXBNK0238","LAW")> 238</a> - Regulations and restrictions as to repayment of deposits.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK239$$@TXBNK0239","LAW")> 239</a> - Repayment of deposits of minors, trust deposits, joint deposits, and deposits adversely claimed; interpleader in certain actions; statute of limitatio
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK239-A$$@TXBNK0239-A","LAW")> 239-A</a> - Preservation of books and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK240$$@TXBNK0240","LAW")> 240</a> - Restrictions as to place of business; branch offices.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK240-A$$@TXBNK0240-A","LAW")> 240-A</a> - Electronic facilities.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK240-B$$@TXBNK0240-B","LAW")> 240-B</a> - Acceptance of United States currency.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK241$$@TXBNK0241","LAW")> 241</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK242$$@TXBNK0242","LAW")> 242</a> - Assets; how entered and carried on books; disallowance by superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK243$$@TXBNK0243","LAW")> 243</a> - Surplus fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK244$$@TXBNK0244","LAW")> 244</a> - Earnings; how and when to be computed; transfers to surplus fund.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK245$$@TXBNK0245","LAW")> 245</a> - Interest payments.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK246$$@TXBNK0246","LAW")> 246</a> - Board of trustees; number; vacancies; qualifications; oath and declaration.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK246-A$$@TXBNK0246-A","LAW")> 246-A</a> - Executive committee and other committees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK247$$@TXBNK0247","LAW")> 247</a> - Restrictions upon trustees and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK248$$@TXBNK0248","LAW")> 248</a> - Removal and forfeiture of office of trustee.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK249$$@TXBNK0249","LAW")> 249</a> - Compensation of trustees and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK250$$@TXBNK0250","LAW")> 250</a> - Pensions; insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK251$$@TXBNK0251","LAW")> 251</a> - Meetings; quorum; by-laws; officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK252$$@TXBNK0252","LAW")> 252</a> - Reports to trustees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK253$$@TXBNK0253","LAW")> 253</a> - Official communications from department of financial services to be submitted to trustees and noted in minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK254$$@TXBNK0254","LAW")> 254</a> - Examinations by trustees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK255$$@TXBNK0255","LAW")> 255</a> - Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK255-A$$@TXBNK0255-A","LAW")> 255-A</a> - Publication and delivery of annual report.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK256$$@TXBNK0256","LAW")> 256</a> - Photographic reproduction of records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK257$$@TXBNK0257","LAW")> 257</a> - Duties of trustees and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK258$$@TXBNK0258","LAW")> 258</a> - Prohibition of unauthorized savings banks and use of the word "savings"; exception as to school savings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK260$$@TXBNK0260","LAW")> 260</a> - Charters of all savings banks conformed to this article.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK260-A$$@TXBNK0260-A","LAW")> 260-A</a> - Amendment of organization certificate and by-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK260-B$$@TXBNK0260-B","LAW")> 260-B</a> - Conversion of a savings bank into a savings and loan association.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_6:savings_banks.html
 
                                 ARTICLE VI
                                SAVINGS BANKS
 
  Section 229.   Application.
          230.   Incorporation; organization certificate.
          232.   Organization    certificate    to    be    submitted   to
                   superintendent; proof of  publication  and  service  of
                   notice of intention.
          233.   When  corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to
                   commencing business.
          234.   General powers.
          234-a. Settlement, modification or readjustment of investment.
          234-b. Trust powers.
          235.   Investment of funds.
          235-b. Effect of usury.
          235-c. Regulation of certain charges.
          235-d. Service corporations owned by savings  banks;  authorized
                   activities of such corporations; investment therein.
          236.   Deposits by savings banks with other banking corporations
                   and private bankers; restrictions.
          237.   Deposits with savings banks; restrictions.
          238.   Regulations and restrictions as to repayment of deposits.
          239.   Repayment  of  deposits  of minors, trust deposits, joint
                   deposits, and deposits adversely claimed;  interpleader
                   in certain actions; statute of limitations.
          239-a. Preservation of books and records.
          240.   Restrictions as to place of business; branch offices.
          240-a. Electronic facilities.
          240-b. Acceptance of United States currency.
          241.   Change  of  location;  change of designation of principal
                   office.
          242.   Assets; how entered and carried on books; disallowance by
                   superintendent.
          243.   Surplus fund.
          244.   Earnings; how and  when  to  be  computed;  transfers  to
                   surplus fund.
          245.   Interest payments.
          246.   Board  of  trustees;  number;  vacancies; qualifications;
                   oath and declaration.
          246-a. Executive committee and other committees.
          247.   Restrictions upon trustees and officers.
          248.   Removal and forfeiture of office of trustee.
          249.   Compensation of trustees and officers.
          250.   Pensions; insurance.
          251.   Meetings; quorum; by-laws; officers.
          252.   Reports to trustees.
          253.   Official  communications  from  department  of  financial
                   services  to  be  submitted  to  trustees  and noted in
                   minutes.
          254.   Examinations by trustees.
          255.   Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
          255-a. Publication and delivery of annual report.
          256.   Photographic reproduction of records.
          257.   Duties of trustees and officers.
          258.   Prohibition of unauthorized savings banks and use of  the
                   word "savings"; exception as to school savings.
          260.   Charters of all savings banks conformed to this article.
          260-a. Amendment of organization certificate and by-laws.
          260-b. Conversion  of  a  savings  bank  into a savings and loan
                   association.


::: article_8-a:338_safe_deposit_business.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA8-A$$@TXBNK0A8-A","LAW")> Article 8-A</a> -  SAFE DEPOSIT BUSINESS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK332$$@TXBNK0332","LAW")> 332</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK333$$@TXBNK0333","LAW")> 333</a> - Access to safe deposit boxes by certain fiduciaries.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK334$$@TXBNK0334","LAW")> 334</a> - Leases to minors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK335$$@TXBNK0335","LAW")> 335</a> - Special remedies where rental of safe deposit box is not paid or when safe deposit box is not vacated on termination of lease.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK336$$@TXBNK0336","LAW")> 336</a> - Special remedies where property is deposited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK337$$@TXBNK0337","LAW")> 337</a> - Sale of safe deposit business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK338$$@TXBNK0338","LAW")> 338</a> - Notice to renters of safe deposit boxes regarding insurance.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_8-a:safe_deposit_business.html
 
                               ARTICLE VIII-A
 
                            SAFE DEPOSIT BUSINESS
 
  Section 332. Definitions.
          333. Access to safe deposit boxes by certain fiduciaries.
          334. Leases to minors.
          335. Special  remedies  where  rental of safe deposit box is not
                 paid  or  when  safe  deposit  box  is  not  vacated   on
                 termination of lease.
          336. Special remedies where property is deposited.
          337. Sale of safe deposit business.
          338. Notice   to   renters   of  safe  deposit  boxes  regarding
                 insurance.


::: article_8:330_safe_deposit_companies.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA8$$@TXBNK0A8","LAW")> Article 8</a> -  SAFE DEPOSIT COMPANIES.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK317$$@TXBNK0317","LAW")> 317</a> - General powers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK318$$@TXBNK0318","LAW")> 318</a> - Branch offices.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK319$$@TXBNK0319","LAW")> 319</a> - Limitations upon the powers of safe deposit companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK320$$@TXBNK0320","LAW")> 320</a> - Books and records.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK321$$@TXBNK0321","LAW")> 321</a> - Change of location; change of designation of principal office.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK323$$@TXBNK0323","LAW")> 323</a> - Assessment of stockholders to make good impairment of capital; sale of stock.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK324$$@TXBNK0324","LAW")> 324</a> - Change of control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK327$$@TXBNK0327","LAW")> 327</a> - Use of sign or words indicating safe deposit company by unauthorized persons prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK328$$@TXBNK0328","LAW")> 328</a> - Communications from department of financial services must be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK329$$@TXBNK0329","LAW")> 329</a> - Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK330$$@TXBNK0330","LAW")> 330</a> - Liability of safe deposit company for assessments by superintendent.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_8:safe_deposit_companies.html
 
                                ARTICLE VIII
                           SAFE DEPOSIT COMPANIES.
  Section 317. General powers.
          318. Branch offices.
          319. Limitations upon the powers of safe deposit companies.
          320. Books and records.
          321. Change  of  location;  change  of  designation of principal
                 office.
          323. Assessment of  stockholders  to  make  good  impairment  of
                 capital; sale of stock.
          324. Change of control.
          327. Use  of  sign  or  words indicating safe deposit company by
                 unauthorized persons prohibited.
          328. Communications from department of financial  services  must
                 be submitted to directors and noted in minutes.
          329. Reports to superintendent; penalty for failure to make.
          330. Liability  of  safe  deposit  company  for  assessments  by
                 superintendent.


::: article_9-a:374_licensed_cashers_of_checks.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA9-A$$@TXBNK0A9-A","LAW")> Article 9-A</a> -  LICENSED CASHERS OF CHECKS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK366$$@TXBNK0366","LAW")> 366</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK367$$@TXBNK0367","LAW")> 367</a> - License requirements; fees; capital requirements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK369$$@TXBNK0369","LAW")> 369</a> - Conditions precedent to issuing license; issuance and filing of license; posting license.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK370$$@TXBNK0370","LAW")> 370</a> - Restrictions as to place or area of doing business; establishment of stations; change of location.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK370-A$$@TXBNK0370-A","LAW")> 370-A</a> - Changes in control.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK371$$@TXBNK0371","LAW")> 371</a> - Regulations.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK372$$@TXBNK0372","LAW")> 372</a> - Fees and charges; posting schedule; records and reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK372-A$$@TXBNK0372-A","LAW")> 372-A</a> - Superintendent authorized to examine.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK372-B$$@TXBNK0372-B","LAW")> 372-B</a> - Forged checks for cashing; signage.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK373$$@TXBNK0373","LAW")> 373</a> - Acts prohibited; suspension or revocation of license; penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK374$$@TXBNK0374","LAW")> 374</a> - Application of article.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_9-a:licensed_cashers_of_checks.html
 
                                ARTICLE IX-A
 
                         LICENSED CASHERS OF CHECKS
 
  Section 366.   Definitions.
          367.   License requirements; fees; capital requirements.
          369.   Conditions  precedent  to  issuing  license; issuance and
                   filing of license; posting license.
          370.   Restrictions as to  place  or  area  of  doing  business;
                   establishment of stations; change of location.
          370-a. Changes in control.
          371.   Regulations.
          372.   Fees and charges; posting schedule; records and reports.
          372-a. Superintendent authorized to examine.
          372-b. Forged checks for cashing; signage.
          373.   Acts  prohibited;  suspension  or  revocation of license;
                   penalties.
          374.   Application of article.


::: article_9:361_licensed_lenders.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA9$$@TXBNK0A9","LAW")> Article 9</a> -  LICENSED LENDERS
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK340$$@TXBNK0340","LAW")> 340</a> - Doing business without license prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK341$$@TXBNK0341","LAW")> 341</a> - Application for license; fees; capital requirements.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK342$$@TXBNK0342","LAW")> 342</a> - Conditions precedent to issuing license; procedure where application denied.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK343$$@TXBNK0343","LAW")> 343</a> - License provisions; separate license for each place of business; change of location.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK344$$@TXBNK0344","LAW")> 344</a> - Issuance of license upon acquisition of business of licensed lender.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK345$$@TXBNK0345","LAW")> 345</a> - Application for acquisition of control of licensed lender by purchase of stock.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK347$$@TXBNK0347","LAW")> 347</a> - Grounds for revocation or suspension of license; procedure.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK348$$@TXBNK0348","LAW")> 348</a> - Superintendent authorized to examine.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK349$$@TXBNK0349","LAW")> 349</a> - Licensee's books and records; reports.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK350$$@TXBNK0350","LAW")> 350</a> - Restrictions concerning advertising, liens on real estate, and places where loans made.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK351$$@TXBNK0351","LAW")> 351</a> - Restrictions on loans subject to the provisions of this article; interest; other charges.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK352$$@TXBNK0352","LAW")> 352</a> - Acts required of licensees; acts prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK353$$@TXBNK0353","LAW")> 353</a> - Limitation on licensee's charges on certain loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK354$$@TXBNK0354","LAW")> 354</a> - Restrictions on assignments of compensation for services.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK355$$@TXBNK0355","LAW")> 355</a> - Solicitation of loans.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK356$$@TXBNK0356","LAW")> 356</a> - Restrictions on certain loans by non-licensees, interests, other charges; loans made outside this state.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK357$$@TXBNK0357","LAW")> 357</a> - Insurance.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK358$$@TXBNK0358","LAW")> 358</a> - Penalties.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK359$$@TXBNK0359","LAW")> 359</a> - Authority of superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK360$$@TXBNK0360","LAW")> 360</a> - Short title.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK361$$@TXBNK0361","LAW")> 361</a> - Severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: article_9:licensed_lenders.html
 
                                 ARTICLE IX
 
                              LICENSED LENDERS
 
  Section 340. Doing business without license prohibited.
          341. Application for license; fees; capital requirements.
          342. Conditions  precedent  to  issuing license; procedure where
                 application denied.
          343. License provisions; separate  license  for  each  place  of
                 business; change of location.
          344. Issuance   of  license  upon  acquisition  of  business  of
                 licensed lender.
          345. Application for acquisition of control of  licensed  lender
                 by purchase of stock.
          347. Grounds for revocation or suspension of license; procedure.
          348. Superintendent authorized to examine.
          349. Licensee's books and records; reports.
          350. Restrictions  concerning advertising, liens on real estate,
                 and places where loans made.
          351. Restrictions on loans subject to  the  provisions  of  this
                 article; interest; other charges.
          352. Acts required of licensees; acts prohibited.
          353. Limitation on licensee's charges on certain loans.
          354. Restrictions on assignments of compensation for services.
          355. Solicitation of loans.
          356. Restrictions  on certain loans by non-licensees, interests,
                 other charges; loans made outside this state.
          357. Insurance.
          358. Penalties.
          359. Authority of superintendent.
          360. Short title.
          361. Severability.


::: title_1:1008_definitions_application_certificates_miscellaneous.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T1$$@TXBNK0A15T1","LAW")> Title 1</a> -  Definitions; Application; Certificates; Miscellaneous
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1001$$@TXBNK01001","LAW")> 1001</a> - Definitions.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1002$$@TXBNK01002","LAW")> 1002</a> - Application.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1003$$@TXBNK01003","LAW")> 1003</a> - Certificates; requirements, signing, filing, effectiveness.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1004$$@TXBNK01004","LAW")> 1004</a> - Certificates; corrections.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1005$$@TXBNK01005","LAW")> 1005</a> - Certificates as evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1006$$@TXBNK01006","LAW")> 1006</a> - Corporate seal as evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1007$$@TXBNK01007","LAW")> 1007</a> - When notice or lapse of time unnecessary; notices dispensed with when delivery is prohibited.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK1008$$@TXBNK01008","LAW")> 1008</a> - Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_1:definitions_application_certificates_miscellaneous.html
 
                                   TITLE I
 
            Definitions; Application; Certificates; Miscellaneous
 
  Section 1001. Definitions.
          1002. Application.
          1003. Certificates;      requirements,      signing,     filing,
                  effectiveness.
          1004. Certificates; corrections.
          1005. Certificates as evidence.
          1006. Corporate seal as evidence.
          1007. When  notice  or  lapse  of  time   unnecessary;   notices
                  dispensed with when delivery is prohibited.
          1008. Effect of invalidity of part of article; severability.


::: title_2:2001_corporate_powers.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T2$$@TXBNK0A15T2","LAW")> Title 2</a> -  Corporate Powers
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK2001$$@TXBNK02001","LAW")> 2001</a> - General corporate powers.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_2:corporate_powers.html
 
                                   TITLE 2
 
                              Corporate Powers
 
  Section 2001. General corporate powers.


::: title_3:3002_corporate_name.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T3$$@TXBNK0A15T3","LAW")> Title 3</a> -  Corporate Name
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK3001$$@TXBNK03001","LAW")> 3001</a> - Corporate name; general.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK3002$$@TXBNK03002","LAW")> 3002</a> - Corporate name; exceptions.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_3:corporate_name.html
 
                                   TITLE 3
 
                               Corporate Name
 
  Section 3001. Corporate name; general.
          3002. Corporate name; exceptions.


::: title_4:4005_formation_of_corporations.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T4$$@TXBNK0A15T4","LAW")> Title 4</a> -  Formation of Corporations
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4001$$@TXBNK04001","LAW")> 4001</a> - Incorporation; organization certificate; amount of capital stock.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4001-A$$@TXBNK04001-A","LAW")> 4001-A</a> - Formation of limited liability investment companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4001-B$$@TXBNK04001-B","LAW")> 4001-B</a> - Formation of limited liability trust companies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4002$$@TXBNK04002","LAW")> 4002</a> - Fingerprints.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4003$$@TXBNK04003","LAW")> 4003</a> - Organization certificate to be submitted to the superintendent.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4004$$@TXBNK04004","LAW")> 4004</a> - When corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to commencing business.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK4005$$@TXBNK04005","LAW")> 4005</a> - Organization meeting.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_4:formation_of_corporations.html
 
                                   TITLE 4
 
                          Formation of Corporations
 
  Section 4001.   Incorporation:   organization   certificate;  amount  of
                    capital stock.
          4001-a. Formation of limited liability investment companies.
          4001-b. Formation of limited liability trust companies.
          4002.   Fingerprints.
          4003.   Organization  certificate  to  be   submitted   to   the
                    superintendent.
          4004.   When corporate existence begins; conditions precedent to
                    commencing business.
          4005.   Organization meeting.


::: title_5-a:5050_limited_liability_investment_company_or_limited_liability_trust_company_finance.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T5-A$$@TXBNK0A15T5-A","LAW")> Title 5-A</a> -  Limited Liability Investment Company or Limited Liability Trust Company Finance
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5050$$@TXBNK05050","LAW")> 5050</a> - Company finance.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_5-a:limited_liability_investment_company_or_limited_liability_trust_company_finance.html
 
                                  TITLE 5-A
 
          Limited Liability Investment Company or Limited Liability
                            Trust Company Finance
 
  Section 5050. Company finance.


::: title_5:5016_corporate_finance.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T5$$@TXBNK0A15T5","LAW")> Title 5</a> -  Corporate Finance
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5001$$@TXBNK05001","LAW")> 5001</a> - Authorized shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5002$$@TXBNK05002","LAW")> 5002</a> - Issue of any class of preferred shares in series.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5003$$@TXBNK05003","LAW")> 5003</a> - Subscription for shares; time of payment, forfeiture for default.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5004$$@TXBNK05004","LAW")> 5004</a> - Consideration and payment for shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5005$$@TXBNK05005","LAW")> 5005</a> - Transferable rights to purchase shares; imposition of restrictions or conditions thereon.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5006$$@TXBNK05006","LAW")> 5006</a> - Compensation for formation, reorganization and financing.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5007$$@TXBNK05007","LAW")> 5007</a> - Certificates representing shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5008$$@TXBNK05008","LAW")> 5008</a> - Fractions of a share or scrip authorized.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5009$$@TXBNK05009","LAW")> 5009</a> - Dividends or other distributions in cash or property.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5010$$@TXBNK05010","LAW")> 5010</a> - Share distributions and changes.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5011$$@TXBNK05011","LAW")> 5011</a> - Redeemable shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5012$$@TXBNK05012","LAW")> 5012</a> - Purchase or redemption by a corporation of its own shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5013$$@TXBNK05013","LAW")> 5013</a> - Agreements for purchase by a corporation of its own shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5014$$@TXBNK05014","LAW")> 5014</a> - Reacquired shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5015$$@TXBNK05015","LAW")> 5015</a> - Capital notes and debentures.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK5016$$@TXBNK05016","LAW")> 5016</a> - Convertible shares, capital notes and debentures.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_5:corporate_finance.html
 
                                   TITLE 5
 
                              Corporate Finance
 
  Section 5001. Authorized shares.
          5002. Issue of any class of preferred shares in series.
          5003. Subscription  for  shares; time of payment, forfeiture for
                  default.
          5004. Consideration and payment for shares.
          5005. Transferable rights  to  purchase  shares;  imposition  of
                  restrictions or conditions thereon.
          5006. Compensation for formation, reorganization and financing.
          5007. Certificates representing shares.
          5008. Fractions of a share or scrip authorized.
          5009. Dividends or other distributions in cash or property.
          5010. Share distributions and changes.
          5011. Redeemable shares.
          5012. Purchase or redemption by a corporation of its own shares.
          5013. Agreements  for  purchase  by  a  corporation  of  its own
                  shares.
          5014. Reacquired shares.
          5015. Capital notes and debentures.
          5016. Convertible shares, capital notes and debentures.


::: title_6-a:6050_membership_in_a_limited_liability_investment_company_or_a_limited_liability_trust_company.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T6-A$$@TXBNK0A15T6-A","LAW")> Title 6-A</a> -  Membership In A Limited Liability Investment Company Or A Limited Liability Trust Company
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6050$$@TXBNK06050","LAW")> 6050</a> - Company membership.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_6-a:membership_in_a_limited_liability_investment_company_or_a_limited_liability_trust_company.html
 
                                  TITLE 6-A
 
            Membership In A Limited Liability Investment Company
                    Or A Limited Liability Trust Company
 
  Section 6050.  Company membership.


::: title_6:6029_stockholders.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T6$$@TXBNK0A15T6","LAW")> Title 6</a> -  Stockholders
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6001$$@TXBNK06001","LAW")> 6001</a> - By-laws.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6002$$@TXBNK06002","LAW")> 6002</a> - Meetings of stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6003$$@TXBNK06003","LAW")> 6003</a> - Special meeting for election of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6004$$@TXBNK06004","LAW")> 6004</a> - Fixing record date.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6005$$@TXBNK06005","LAW")> 6005</a> - Notice of meetings of stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6006$$@TXBNK06006","LAW")> 6006</a> - Waivers of notice.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6007$$@TXBNK06007","LAW")> 6007</a> - List of stockholders at meetings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6008$$@TXBNK06008","LAW")> 6008</a> - Quorum of stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6009$$@TXBNK06009","LAW")> 6009</a> - Proxies.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6010$$@TXBNK06010","LAW")> 6010</a> - Selection of inspectors at stockholders' meetings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6011$$@TXBNK06011","LAW")> 6011</a> - Duties of inspectors at stockholders' meetings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6012$$@TXBNK06012","LAW")> 6012</a> - Qualification of voters.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6013$$@TXBNK06013","LAW")> 6013</a> - Limitations on right to vote.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6014$$@TXBNK06014","LAW")> 6014</a> - Vote of stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6015$$@TXBNK06015","LAW")> 6015</a> - Written consent of stockholders, subscribers or incorporators without a meeting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6016$$@TXBNK06016","LAW")> 6016</a> - Greater requirement as to quorum and vote of stockholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6017$$@TXBNK06017","LAW")> 6017</a> - Voting by class or classes of shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6018$$@TXBNK06018","LAW")> 6018</a> - Cumulative voting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6019$$@TXBNK06019","LAW")> 6019</a> - Powers of supreme court respecting elections.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6020$$@TXBNK06020","LAW")> 6020</a> - Agreements as to voting.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6021$$@TXBNK06021","LAW")> 6021</a> - Preemptive rights.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6022$$@TXBNK06022","LAW")> 6022</a> - Procedure to enforce stockholder's right to receive payment for shares.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6023$$@TXBNK06023","LAW")> 6023</a> - Books and records; right of inspection, prima facie evidence.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6024$$@TXBNK06024","LAW")> 6024</a> - Infant securityholders.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6025$$@TXBNK06025","LAW")> 6025</a> - Stockholders' derivative action brought in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6026$$@TXBNK06026","LAW")> 6026</a> - Security for expenses in stockholders' derivative action brought in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK6029$$@TXBNK06029","LAW")> 6029</a> - Liability of stockholders for wages due to laborers, servants or employees.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_6:stockholders.html
 
                                   TITLE 6
 
                                Stockholders
 
  Section 6001. By-laws.
          6002. Meetings of stockholders.
          6003. Special meeting for election of directors.
          6004. Fixing record date.
          6005. Notice of meetings of stockholders.
          6006. Waivers of notice.
          6007. List of stockholders at meetings.
          6008. Quorum of stockholders.
          6009. Proxies.
          6010. Selection of inspectors at stockholders' meetings.
          6011. Duties of inspectors at stockholders' meetings.
          6012. Qualification of voters.
          6013. Limitations on right to vote.
          6014. Vote of stockholders.
          6015. Written    consent   of   stockholders,   subscribers   or
                  incorporators without a meeting.
          6016. Greater requirement as to quorum and vote of stockholders.
          6017. Voting by class or classes of shares.
          6018. Cumulative voting.
          6019. Powers of supreme court respecting elections.
          6020. Agreements as to voting.
          6021. Preemptive rights.
          6022. Procedure  to  enforce  stockholder's  right  to   receive
                  payment for shares.
          6023. Books  and  records;  right  of  inspection,  prima  facie
                  evidence.
          6024. Infant securityholders.
          6025. Stockholders' derivative action brought in  the  right  of
                  the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.
          6026. Security  for  expenses in stockholders' derivative action
                  brought in the right of the  corporation  to  procure  a
                  judgment in its favor.
          6029. Liability  of  stockholders  for  wages  due  to laborers,
                  servants or employees.


::: title_7:7023_directors_and_officers.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T7$$@TXBNK0A15T7","LAW")> Title 7</a> -  Directors and Officers
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7001$$@TXBNK07001","LAW")> 7001</a> - Board of directors; qualifications and disqualifications.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7002$$@TXBNK07002","LAW")> 7002</a> - Number of directors; definition of "entire board".
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7003$$@TXBNK07003","LAW")> 7003</a> - Election and tenure of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7004$$@TXBNK07004","LAW")> 7004</a> - Classification of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7005$$@TXBNK07005","LAW")> 7005</a> - Vacancies and newly created directorships.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7006$$@TXBNK07006","LAW")> 7006</a> - Removal of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7007$$@TXBNK07007","LAW")> 7007</a> - Quorum of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7008$$@TXBNK07008","LAW")> 7008</a> - Action by the board.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7009$$@TXBNK07009","LAW")> 7009</a> - Greater requirement as to quorum and vote of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7010$$@TXBNK07010","LAW")> 7010</a> - Place and time of meetings of the board.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7011$$@TXBNK07011","LAW")> 7011</a> - Notice of board meetings; waiver; adjournment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7012$$@TXBNK07012","LAW")> 7012</a> - Executive committee and other committees.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7013$$@TXBNK07013","LAW")> 7013</a> - Officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7014$$@TXBNK07014","LAW")> 7014</a> - Removal of officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7015$$@TXBNK07015","LAW")> 7015</a> - Duty of directors and officers; oath of directors.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7016$$@TXBNK07016","LAW")> 7016</a> - Liability of directors in certain cases.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7017$$@TXBNK07017","LAW")> 7017</a> - Actions against directors and officers for misconduct.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7018$$@TXBNK07018","LAW")> 7018</a> - Nonexclusivity of statutory provisions for indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7019$$@TXBNK07019","LAW")> 7019</a> - Authorization for indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7020$$@TXBNK07020","LAW")> 7020</a> - Payment of indemnification other than by court award.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7021$$@TXBNK07021","LAW")> 7021</a> - Indemnification of directors and officers by a court.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7022$$@TXBNK07022","LAW")> 7022</a> - Other provisions affecting indemnification of directors and officers.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK7023$$@TXBNK17023","LAW")> 7023</a> - Insurance for idemnification of directors and officers.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_7:directors_and_officers.html
 
                                   TITLE 7
 
                           Directors and Officers
 
  Section 7001. Board of directors; qualifications and disqualifications.
          7002. Number of directors; definition of "entire board".
          7003. Election and tenure of directors.
          7004. Classification of directors.
          7005. Vacancies and newly created directorships.
          7006. Removal of directors.
          7007. Quorum of directors.
          7008. Action by the board.
          7009. Greater requirement as to quorum and vote of directors.
          7010. Place and time of meetings of the board.
          7011. Notice of board meetings; waiver; adjournment.
          7012. Executive committee and other committees.
          7013. Officers.
          7014. Removal of officers.
          7015. Duty of directors and officers; oath of directors.
          7016. Liability of directors in certain cases.
          7017. Actions against directors and officers for misconduct.
          7018. Nonexclusivity of statutory provisions for indemnification
                  of directors and officers.
          7019. Authorization   for   indemnification   of  directors  and
                  officers.
          7020. Payment of indemnification other than by court award.
          7021. Indemnification of directors and officers by a court.
          7022. Other provisions affecting  indemnification  of  directors
                  and officers.
          7023. Insurance for indemnification of directors and officers.


::: title_8:8007_amendments_and_changes.html
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
<HTML>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html">
<HEAD>
<title>Laws of New York</title>
<link href="LAWSSEAF.CSS" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
 media="screen">
<style type="text/css" media="print">
  #header {
    display:none
  }
  div#container {
  overflow:visible;
  left: 0px;
  right: 0px;
  top:  0px;
  bottom: 50px;
  width: 100%;
  height:auto;
  display : block;
  FONT-FAMILY: "times new roman", serif;
  float: none !important;
  color: black;
  background: transparent;
  }
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="LAWSSEAF.JS"></script>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<form name="LAWSFORM" action="lawsseaf.cgi" method="post">
<DIV id=header>
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="nysheading">
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="left">
    Laws of New York
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="middle" align="right">
      <a href="javascript:LOADHELP('LAW')">
      <font color="white">
      Help
      </font>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
 
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
 class="standard">
  <tr>
    <td>Search Word or Phrase
      <input type="text" name="QUERYDATA" id="QUERYDATA" value=""
      size="50" maxlength="230"
      onkeyup="checkEnter(event)"
      onkeypress="return noenter(event)">
      &nbsp;
      <input name="SBUTTON" id="SBUTTON" type="Button" value="Search"
      onClick="hardReload1('SEA')">
    </td>
    <td>&nbsp;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <!-- Begin Location Toolbar-->
      <strong>Return to:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;
      <a href="menuf.cgi" style="COLOR : #483d8b;" OnClick="bustout()">
      <i>Main Menu</i></a>
      <!-- End Location Toolbar-->
      <!--MAIN-->
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<A href=JAVASCRIPT:getlaw("LAWS","","MAIN")>Laws Menu</a>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
      <!--MORE-->
<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@LLBNK","LAW")> BNK </a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","@PLBNK0A15","LAW")> Article 15</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</DIV>
<DIV id=container>
<strong>BNK  - Banking </strong>
<br> <a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNKA15T8$$@TXBNK0A15T8","LAW")> Title 8</a> -  Amendments and Changes
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8001$$@TXBNK08001","LAW")> 8001</a> - Right to amend organization certificate.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8002$$@TXBNK08002","LAW")> 8002</a> - Reduction of capital stock by amendment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8003$$@TXBNK08003","LAW")> 8003</a> - Authorization of amendment or change.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8004$$@TXBNK08004","LAW")> 8004</a> - Class voting on amendment.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8005$$@TXBNK08005","LAW")> 8005</a> - Certificate of amendment or of change; contents.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8006$$@TXBNK08006","LAW")> 8006</a> - Provisions as to certain proceedings.
<br><a href=javascript:getlaw("LAWS","$$BNK8007$$@TXBNK08007","LAW")> 8007</a> - Restated organization certificate.
</DIV>
<!-- hidden -->
<input type="hidden" name="TOKEN" value="50711398">
<INPUT TYPE="HIDDEN" NAME="BROWSER" value="BROWSER">
<input type="hidden" name="zzzend" value="NO 1C">
</FORM>
</BODY>
</HTML>

::: title_8:amendments_and_changes.html
 
                                   TITLE 8
 
                           Amendments and Changes
 
  Section 8001. Right to amend organization certificate.
          8002. Reduction of capital stock by amendment.
          8003. Authorization of amendment or change.
          8004. Class voting on amendment.
          8005. Certificate of amendment or of change; contents.
          8006. Provisions as to certain proceedings.
          8007. Restated organization certificate.
